<pm>
As in every narrative debate, we need to separate two things. What is the scope and the effect that this narrative has? Because people in the debate often time pretend that narrative is everything and it will like shift it one way or the other. The realistic scenario of how this plays out is there are some biological urges that urge you to fight the illness, not fight, but like to combat the illness, try to overcome it anyway because you want to live, you don't want to die, you have family, you have friends, you have all of these things. So the power of the narrative is more subtle and this is what this debate is about. The power of the narrative is how you interact with the illness psychologically and second of all how others interact with your illness influence in your psychology as well in this situation. So let's talk about some other pieces of framing. One, so there are different people, people are different, right? Everybody has their own life philosophy and how they're going to life. 
Right. And people who have the right philosophy will see the world as a battle generally like I'm a story kind of defeating all of these things there. Regardless of the narrative most likely going to have this narrative because it works for them because that's their, how do you say, life philosophy. Right. What is narrative changes. So that's non-comparative. What is narrative changes particularly is that these pushes people who do not have this life philosophy or this life philosophy does not necessarily suit their psychological needs to adopt this narrative and necessarily
look at there illness in that way? And that can be horrible because it skews their choices and makes them cope with illness less and makes them psychologically vulnerable. How does this manifest? How does this look like? Usually this manifest in a way when you tell people and when you have the illness, what are these people saying to you? Oh, you will overcome this. You will definitely defeat these fires. You don't worry. Not sure that's the smidgen of pessimism usually around these people. People are usually awkward around people who have terminal illness or illness overall because they also don't want to
It's a denial process, right? You don't want to cope with the fact that your friend might die, father might die, or somebody like this. But we are saying that this coping, that this pushing under the rug is actually bad for both parties because it pushes conversations away that are necessary to happen for these people to have good psychological states and die in peace, which is in some cases inevitable under their side of the house. So expectations if you're a fighter, right? Like we have association with what does it mean to be a fighter. Your brain, you're not showing weakness. 
So we don't see that it always manifests in that extreme way, but it definitely pushes you to be more in that line and hide some of the doubts that you have, hide some of the questions. So let's talk about why this has impacted, why is this so important, right? We believe there's a huge, some people might not overcome their illness. A lot of people might not overcome their illness, especially because this notion has the majority of the impact where people are actually worried, which is terminally illness or lost lifetime illness or something because if it's like cold who the fuck cares, doesn't even hold it in the association so we believe that process of coping with the disease or dying potentially from a disease is something that is very like like that you need to go through right but we believe that this narrative is putting you through that process alone because one of the ways to cope with that process is to cope with the possibility that you are mortal you will die and that it will not go good for you in association and this is the thoughts that you 
already have in your head, right? But the problem is with this narrative, you're pushing these thoughts aside. You're never engaging with these thoughts until it's too late. The problem is you rise your expectation as well of what will happen and how it will happen, which leads to a lot of cases of depression and additional psychological illnesses on top of you having a terminus illness, rather than engaging with the possibility that you are going to die making, to some extent, your peace with it and necessarily leaving the rest of these with less pain and necessarily because psychological pain in this case, I would say it's even worse the dread of one day is coming making like peace but the problem is you are alone in this battle. If other people are awkward around talking uh talking about this sort of situation  and they're telling you all these toxically positive stuff you will overcome definitely don't ever say that you are giving up and all these things because i saw these things in my family, right? this is how, this is how it works in the majority of the families, right? when my grandpa was was dying in the association, they sounds like these people don't understand. it sounds like if you're having these thoughts that these people don't want to face these thoughts with you and it's pushing them aside, which means that you're not having conversations with them against us. Sometimes this conversation is crucial, right? Talking to your family, the possibility that you're going to die. It will be painful. You will cry. It will be horrible, but it will be 10 times more horrible pushing that under the rock and counting that it will become a bit better just the passage of time. So this catharsis and psychological well-being of people is being harmed by their inability to
talk to these people, to cry with these people, and to have this cathartic experience of coping with something that is so horrible in dissociation. But it also skews you into continuing the fight. The fight is not always good, right? In some cases, you will die no matter what. In some cases, you are going to live with the term, with the illness, your whole life in dissociation. Coping in the fight mechanisms means that you're fighting in any ways necessary to give yourself a chance. Five percent, one percent, ten percent, right? Which means that you're going through something
very horrible procedures, going through surgery, going, maybe even going to chemotherapy that in some cases where people don't want it, going to alternative medicine, which all have side effects that can make your life in the last couple of years of your life, make it even worse than it is living with the terminal disease, which means at last moments of your Earth and we have only one life are spent trying to combat this, going from hospital to hospital, to hospital in association, going into depth because of it, feeling guilty because you're in depth because your family is in depth. 
because of it. So you have all of these psychological burden in you. Some people might choose to do this still, right? With or without narrative because they want to fight because this is something, but this is narrative is skewing that choice from them. He's taking that choice away to meaningfully think about the potential, the potential that they might want to give up, that they might want to live the last few days on this earth with their family on a cabin doing nothing or just, just shivering the moment rather than being in bed, shame, then
a lot of procedures that means fighting the terminally illness are horrible. Are you bringing a lot of pain to that person, to their family, to the people around them? It also brings despair because the more you're doing it and the more you're losing this fight, it brings you to even worse psychological state, which means in the fact that you cannot stop and that you cannot sometimes say, I've had enough, I'm tired, I'm horrible, that you are afraid of this feeling by yourself because the society has ingrained in you that you should be brave, that you should be
that you should be a fighter because your family told you that you should be brave, that you should be a fighter because you have nobody to confide in. It means that sadly, under their side of the house, these people are usually dying alone, under the physical pain, but also huge emotional and psychological pain that is horrible. In this situation, we believe that biology doesn't change. People will still fight illness, but when it's time to give up, we give them a peaceful and dignified death that these people deserve. That's why you should definitely vote opening government. Thank you very much. 
</pm>

<lo>
The narrative that someone can fight and defeat cancer is one that we think opening opposition is deeply empowering because it says that this illness is not something that is internal and intrinsic to you, but it is something that is external to you and something that you can fight and get over. That is a narrative that we want to preserve for individuals to help them get over illnesses, to help them cope with illnesses, and to help society have greater support for people with illnesses. That's why we're going to be so proud to oppose. What I want to do is two things. One, I'm going to talk about how this affects people who are impacted by illnesses as well as their families doing some responsiveness to what we just got out of opening government and second of all I am gonna talk about the societal implications of this narrative. So, before that though i want to do some brief kind of rebuttal and framing against some of stuff that we have heard out of opening government because i think a lot of stuff is about how this is harmful for people who are coping with the illnesses, number one the number one thing that i am gonna say is that I'll give you analysis on how this is actually empowering for people and thinking about themselves in a battle against this illness is actually something that gives them a lots of hope and fulfillment and makes them feel empowered and more happy as they are coping with the illness. Same thing with their family. But the second thing to say is that on weighing in this debate, even if opening government manages to prove that they get a slightly better experience for the people who are going to die, we think that is still less important than preventing people from dying and suffering from a large amount of pain from this illness in the first place. We are fine on opening opposition with instrumentalizing people to an extent. If we have to accept that, if we can mean that less people suffer from this illness and less
people die. And the reason why we know that this is true and this is something the weighing that you should perform in this debate is because if we just think intuitively, would you rather someone is able to cope with their illness better, but still dies of that illness or doesn't die at all? Obviously, you would rather people don't die at all. So all of our material there is going to outweigh opening government, even if they manage to win on helping people cope with death and die with more dignity. So one, how does this benefit people affected by this illness? The first thing this narrative does is it gives people who are struck
with this illness, a sense of hope and empowerment. The most substantial thing about this narrative and the notion of illness as a fight and as a battle is about viewing illness as an enemy, something that you are fighting against. And I think there are two key things that I want to remark about that particular view and that particular narrative. The first thing that I want to observe is that this view frames illness as something that is external to you and not core to who you are. And second of all, this narrative frames your life as one in which you have agency
in which you have the power and the ability to fight back against that illness. And indeed the analysis for Milos would suggest that I am correct. Why is this important? The first reason this is important is because we think that the perils of dealing with an illness are such that it seeps into every aspect of your life. It affects your ability to see your family, to enjoy your everyday life passions, because you're constantly stuck in a hospital bed. You're constantly being given treatments and medications from other people. And it's easy for you to feel like your fate
the hands of other people, it is not something that you can control. And because you lose all senses of normalcy, it is easy for you to begin to view this illness as intrinsic to you and intrinsic to who you are. But with this narrative, it is something that allows you to feel more empowered because you feel like this illness is external to you. It is something you are fighting against. And crucially, even if you don't end up winning against this illness, this allows you to feel more happy as you fight it for that reason and be more hopeful, which is a huge good
for these individuals. Because we think psychological harms, as OG has conceded, are some of the greatest harms that illnesses inflict upon individuals. But second of all, and more critically, this gives people a sense, as I've said, a sense of choice and agency and causes people to actively work to combat their illness. I want to fight back here against the framing that we get out of the prime minister, because the framing they give us is that people who want to fight against illness will already do so in the status quo. And what this choice is
about, what this narrative is about, is it's about boxing in people who do not want to feel like they are fighting against the illness to fight against the illness. But that is not true. The reason why that is not true is because we think in these situations, there is a huge natural tendency for people to become hopeless and despondent for the reasons I've identified, because having this illness being stuck in a hospital changes your life to such a significant extent. And furthermore, just I think it's just intuitively natural for people to be feeling despondent and hopeless in a sense
situation in which they are told that they only have a couple more years to live, that they have a terrible illness. So I think what this narrative does is it fights back against the natural tendency of people to be hopeless and despondent in a manager that encourages them to fight back against their illness. This is important because you need people to buy into treatments and medication in order for them to work. Medication and treatments are not magical spells that make you better. They are incredibly difficult processes and very arduous journeys. Chemo has hair loss, nausea, general feelings of lethargic
and it makes it harder for you to enjoy your life. So having a psychological belief that you can fight against this is massively important. But it's not only important for people to feel hope and a degree of happiness during difficult times, but it also keeps them motivated. But also just intrinsically and scientifically, having people who are more motivated to fight against the illness helps during treatment. Studies have shown that complying and cooperating with treatment, having a strong and stable mental game, believing that you can fight against this illness, that you can win,
in this battle has significant effects on the success of that treatment. Our psychology is not distinct from our physiology and from our physical conditions. And when people believe that they can fight against this illness, they are more likely to defeat this illness that has been proven through studies. But even if they are not, and this is the most critical impact in this debate because of the framing I gave you at the start, but even if people are not likely to fight this to a significant enough extent such that before I move on, I'll take CG.

<poi> 
What's the mechanism that people are going to believe this just because everybody else tells them they need to be a fighter?
</poi>

I mean, i think even opening government has bought into this mechanism, that people are influenced by this narrative. so i am not sure what you're getting at. you'd have to prove more that people don't buy into this narrative. and as i told you, there's a natural tendency for these people to feel hopeless. so now this means that people are more likely to fight against this illness, more likely to survive, or even if they don't survive, they're more likely to have less pain, because they comply and buy into these treatments and that makes their life easier.
Also, all of my analysis here applies to family members as well. Family members are more likely to feel hopeful in this situation. Secondly, on societal impacts. I think that this narrative is not solely individualistic. We also think of ourselves as having a societal fight against breast cancer or societal fight against COVID. But even if that's not true, even to the extent that this is individualistic, when you believe that individuals are fighting against something, you believe that they can defeat it. And thus, as a member of society, you are more likely to support
 efforts to help them defeat it. And that looks like research funding research into cures and funding research into drugs, etc. that make these people's lives more bearable. So it is deeply unclear that opening government makes life better for people in terms of when they're coping for this illness. And regardless of that, we make it more likely that people survive from this illness. That's the most important thing in this debate. And for that reason, we oppose.
</lo>

<dpm>
What we heard from Sharma is bunch of coherent arguments, why people fear hospital? What we heard from the leader of opposition is linguistically in a nice way said words that are not actual arguments, i am going to deal with that but before that just to remind you of some pieces of framing that you already presented in this debate. What do narratives do? We regret most of the narratives that exist in society. Narratives put you into a certain model of behavior that gives you social expectation that you act in a certain way because if you don't act in a certain way, you're not to signal certain virtue that you have. In this debate, to be concrete, you're signaling the virtue of courage, bravery, fighting, and all those things that happen. We say when in some instances, like regarding illness, some narrative is so dominant, it is inherently harmful almost for any narrative that exists because it puts you in this
And the specificities of life is bad and many have said in Milos speech have not been responded by leader of the opposition. But to tell you if you want to fight two responses, if you want to fight, if you're the person who views life that way, you can view life in nine different ways, you're already going to fight, you're going to tell your parents or your family, or I'm going to fight them and everyone's going to tell you, yeah, you fight this fight. So what we want is one of the reasons why we want is
to give people more freedom and more choice in how they approach this disease. If you want to approach it in a fight, you don't need narrative to do so. What narrative does is accuse people who do not want to perceive it as a fight into perceiving it as a fight. And this is where the problem and this is where most of the problem arises. What we heard from OP other than this framing, which was very important, we heard that you perceive it as something external. What kind of, I'm sorry, bullshit line of analysis
disease. If I don't feel bravery, I'm not feeling that cancer is external. I'm feeling that it is somehow part of my identity. Just because you say something is external, it doesn't make any logical sense. Most people want to live healthy lives if they have disease, and they will do everything with the disease that's in their power to help their health get better because of biology, because we're evolutionary condition that we want to live life. And no, you're not going to say, oh, cancer, I myself, it sounds good for some dialectics philosophy and things like that. Not really good for
not really good for a BP argument. It gives you agency. I told you one, many people will still feel even without this narrative that they are brave. But secondly, it takes away agency from those people who do not want to act to be brave, who want to talk to their friends and to their parents, to tell them how horrible they feel because they got that disease, but they cannot do this. And why? This is really crucial because if everyone signals the virtue, you're so brave, you're so brave, my love you will survive, you will be this. Then when you get all those virtues, you yourself become a inhibited and don't want to talk about problems that you have, because you're getting all those confirmations on how great you are, how they are. And many people, maybe 50% of the people in the world, wasn't like that. Maybe they would like to talk to their husbands and wife and say, I really feel bad about this. I feel bad. And then we have the conversation that Milos tells you, we shall get to certain closure in the cases of terminal ill patients or those who are most likely, or those or those who are most likely, or those who are most likely. 
Most likely, or those were most likely going to die. So if more if more people are going to survive because of this narrative,
with all the medicine you wanted to survive, we believe that this statement just doesn't say in this debate. Regarding scientific stuff in debates, we say there are a bunch of other scientific studies that show completely opposite of what our opposition states, this equally valuable argument and this equally good argument in this debate. Let's go a bit further there regarding this hope that is helping us survive. This hope is not actual hope. It is very often a performative hope. Someone telling you hope
hope that there is hope just for the sake of telling you there is. And then when this starts going on and on, you still miss on those conversations that you still miss your conversation that Milos just told you about. What this causes you, this causes you to be alone and why this causes you to be alone because narrative pushes people to think one dimensionally inside of this narrative and to signal the virtue. So you don't talk about people regarding this and you put it all inside you. So you're going to feel psychologically worse. So if psychology is influencing, then 50% of people are being psychologically
worse because of it because of this narrative, then they're going to be less healthy and more people are going to die if they really want to run those kinds of impacts. Furthermore, what Milos told you, they completely disregard this, how this narrative is skewing your legitimate choice. Many people who have horrible diseases want and should have the free choice to do things such as assisted suicide or things like that. They're heavily, heavily stigmatized in our society already as it is. So what often happens is that
People do not cannot rethink that choice because they're so afraid of the social stigma that's going to happen even if they're ill They don't even retain their choice then later for 30 40 years many people may have may feel regret about this, you know, there are many people who even we Who even we will confess to this after years of being After years of being ill that maybe it will be better for someone that they have taken in a dignified way their life away this perfectly legitimate try that it's completely skewed because of this toxic positivity and
toxic virtue signaling that uh and toxic which is courageously healing hat that occurs in this debate. I want closing if you have POI, please. Then opening.

<poi>
As i told you in my speech, the natural human tendency for people when they are told that they have six months left to live is to be hopeless. so this narrative actually helps people who want to be hopeful. be hopeful. your framing is incorrect.
</poi>

No, the natural tendency of people is that they want to survive because of biology. If doctor already tells you you have, you know, you have probably six months to live, what is much better is not to think, Oh, yes, you have, maybe you will beat it. You will beat it as Milos tells you and then not have conversations with your friends, with your family about what may happen if you die, what happens in the after all, and all these other important philosophical questions that I guess, I don't know. I don't have that personal experience. The man who is, you know, soon going to die wishes to have in order to have this closure in the moment before they die. But even without terminal reasons, if you talk about
multiple sclerosis, other autoimmune diseases, this narrative of bravery, what it does, it pushes people away. Okay, if your friend or family member has autoimmune disease, and you're like, yeah, you're so brave, you're so brave, then and you get all the time this, you know, dopamine rush, because people are telling that you're so brave, you don't want that to be lost. And then you avoid having difficult conversations about how your life, your life tends to be changed. What does this mean? This means this creates a chilling effect with your personal community with other people, just goes deeper and deeper and deeper
years go by where you never have the appropriate conversations that you wanted to have with these people. As Milos already told you, if this narrative doesn't exist and people want to feel that they want to feel a warrior-like mentality when they're this, they're still going to do this because people are still going to approve of someone fighting for their life. So at the end of this debate, really not much is lost on side government. But those people who are skewed into certain type of social behavior get really bad off, proud to propose. 
</dpm>

<dlo> 
Honorable panel, it takes courage to live. It takes courage to live when the only world that you've known for the past few months, for the past few years of your life is pain. It takes courage to say, I want to push through this. I want to go through and I want to be alive. That courage isn't something that comes naturally to people. And it's not something that OG can just assert that
Oh, you have the biological will to live because biology doesn't give you that courage. What it does is it sends you into despair. It makes you scared of death, makes you scared of the endless abyss of not knowing what happens when you die. We want to give people hope on opening opposition. We want to let them know that they have control over their own lives and that they are able to find a way out. And even if they do end up losing that battle in the end, to give them something to cling onto until their very last breath is something that we find vitally important, incredibly proud to oppose. 
Three things in the speech. Firstly, I want to talk about the framing of this debate. After that, I want to talk about the individual psychological impacts. And lastly, I want to move on to the larger societal perception and impacts, which we see opening government has completely missed. Firstly, on the framing, who's affected under this debate? Because I think a lot of people in this debate are going to die regardless, right? And I think only centers are case on that. But there's something really important is that a huge majority of those people are diagnosed with a terminal illness several months prior
to which they will actually die. That's to say that they are forced to face their own reality and which that's when they talk about coping with laws, picking and losing fight, right? They often characterize these as refusing as denying death right up until the day that you die, but that's often not true. In many of the cases that they hinge their case on, people already get their terminal diagnosis many months in advance. Note that this severely mitigates the OG case because a lot of the things that they think they're winning are actually non-mutually exclusive within this debate in which the things that they talk about are going to happen regardless. 
right? These are not the group of people who think that, oh, I have to fight this battle. It's the people who have a hook of living, who are not diagnosed as terminally ill, but still have a chance to live. These are the people in which the narrative affects most profoundly, right? So what is this narrative? What does it look like in Opp.? And crucially, what is the comparative on-site government? On Opp., we talk about fighting and two very key important aspects of this narrative. But one, that it frames illness as something external to you. And secondly, is that it frames illness as something that you have agency over, that your life, you have agency over. 
the OG comparative is that you frame illness as an affliction, right? that's the narrative, is that it's something internal to you, and that your life is not as deterministic. it says outcome has already been decided. note that these weren't just assertions that we made. i don't think OG can get away with just being like, oh, this is bullshit biology, right? because tyson gives you a lot of analysis. as to why this is the natural tendency, we're scared of death, and often no matter how religious you are in many circumstances, you don't know what's going to happen to you we are naturally scared of death.
What that means is it sends us into a pool of anxiety. Similar for viewing illness as something internal to you, Tyson talks about how coping and dealing with treatments is something that consumes your life. It's so easy to view that as something intrinsic to you. These weren't just things that can be talked about. Oh, biologically you have an incentive to survive because biologically a lot of bad things shouldn't happen. We shouldn't develop depression and yet we do. Those are valuable and important things that we all solve for on the side. Right. So we'd say the idea of fearing death of losing heart rate
and viewing illness as something that is part of you as opposed to something you're fighting is true for almost all people. It contains the entire scope of the debate that we're talking about. And then on opposition, we help everyone to some degree. Even people who are battle-hardy need this confirmation, need the courage, and especially people who are more likely to give up, the people who are riddled with doubts, the people whose anxiety plagues them every single night, unable to sleep, right? It's important that we give those people the hope that they can cling onto. That being said,
I want to talk about the individual psychological impacts. Firstly, undergoing the process of treatment. I want to talk about the worst case, even in the worst case in which that person is going to die anyways. We prefer that that person can cling onto hope to the day that they die. And their work, what did I write here? I would say that this is really important because in many people and evidently throughout society, in their worst moments and their often most hopeless moments, people want to cling onto something. It gives them a place of mental comfort,
and you can see this in religion in the sense of luck. People will believe in these things even if they rationally might not completely understand them, even if they can't rationally convince themselves that it's true, they cling onto those things because it gives them comfort. And that's something that we think is inherent to almost every single human being. That's why people don't fall into pits of despair all the time because they cling onto that hope, they cling onto the faith, even if it's maybe not something that they rationally believe in, though, thank you, I'll take a POI from OG, maybe you're in a bit. It's still something that we'll cling onto and it's something that we can all
bring them comfort. But we also say that this helps their family. It's important for their family to be able to also have hope. Seeing your loved one go through treatment, seeing your loved one go through despair is not something to be taken lightly. And giving your family hope, the idea that things can turn out okay, that this person might survive is also vital. But secondly, the likelihood of success. This is Hella important. This is very important because life, it's beautiful. Life is incredibly beautiful. And I think in a lot of cases, the most important thing in this debate is to preserve that life. 
Tyson talks about why the likelihood of successive treatment is much higher in our South house, because your psychological well being is actually closely tied with how well you're able to treat right, how accepting you are those treatments, how much you're going to take them regularly, how much you cooperate doctors, but also just your general emotional physical state is something often dependent on whether you have hope. That's because we can increase just the number of people who are able to survive, see another day, spend another month with their loved one, perhaps another year, another decade, building those bonds. So thank you. That's the impact that we think is winning this debate. But I want to deal with their case, because they talk about firstly, coping with loss. I said that this already gets mitigated. No. Thank you. In most cases, people have to cope with loss once beforehand. That's something that they naturally have to accept when faced with it, right? They're unable to dilute. But also say that when they talk about other people, so that people around you, those people are usually also accepting that if you tell them, I don't want to die and hear me out, and if you expose your emotional vulnerability, those people usually don't say, No, fuck off. I don't want to listen to you. They're usually understanding of your pain and where you're coming from,
and their first instinct is to reach out to you and listen to what you have to say. So I think a lot of the cases in which OG hinges their case on aren't applicable here. People are naturally empathetic and that a lot of people are forced to accept. So let's talk about the worst cases that OG thinks in which what they say is true. I'd say that it's really important, at least even in those cases when you're losing hope, it's important for the people around you to not see that they don't lose hope. That the people around you still believe in you because that affects how you believe in yourself. Talking about difficult fights now, right? This is also mitigated
significantly, but I want to say the cases, right? The people who are regretting alive versus the people who are glad that they had the courage to live. There's a reason why suicide survivors are often grateful of the fact that they're still alive. It's because when you're in pain, it's easy to forget about all the beautiful moments of life, right? But that doesn't mean that they aren't real, and that doesn't mean that it's not worth living another day. It's on all of those basis because we give those people a shimmer of hope in the last moments or for the rest of their lives, we're incredibly proud to oppose. 
</dlo>

<mg>
The particular piece of news that opening opposition misses is that agency is a subjective term or the illness and the grief and denial associated with it are processed over a long period of time and based on different people’s desires, happiness, and personality they create different responses. Some people need a fighters encourager than a pep talk, suddenly, the shoulder to cry on. Notably, the same people may need different things at different points in time, and no team in this debate has the epistemic access to say which one is true in the majority of cases, the most important impact therefore, is you're able to access your support structure based on your definition of the problem, regardless what you need, but you're sure that the people around you, or at least some of them, will confirm that they understand how you feel, and therefore that you can ask type of support that you need. This is where the counterfactual comes in, very handy, and it's interesting that opening government did not provide one know who the counterfactual is. People are naturally diverse in their beliefs within their religious or moral in their experiences and in their views of life which are determined by the sum of those experience which means that if I get cancer, the three of my closest friends, probably naturally will not react in the same way, right? Which grants me some kind of flexibility as to who I want to talk to, I know who my friends and family are, I know the way they react, and therefore based on my needs at a particular point in time, I can just be confined in one or the other and therefore have a toolbox at my disposal to access this support structure. The narrative shifts this artificially because it doesn't just work with the family as opening government says, also goes to the media, right? You're probably going to Google things you want to get some kind of confirmation your friend will live. And you will Google success stories, all of these success stories when they go on Ellen DeGeneres, or when they have long articles in The Guardian talk about people who fought the disease, found positivity in their life, and they prevail. Notice the skew distribution, because you only see the people who survive. Dead people don't talk. But this artificially shifts the belief in the people who surround you, the Connect fighting to survival, and they change the way they react to you, even if they naturally wouldn't, which is the key mechanism to mechanize government in this debate? What is the counterfactual? Then the counter patch is a narrative of free choice, and this is something that's already happening in a lot of other similar areas. For example, in the mental health awareness community, there is a lot of backlash against the term of toxic positivity. So the idea that you should look at everything through like the most rosy sunglasses, you should find it you should focus on the sunny side. They say, No, everyone carries their own cross and their own burden, and given that we cannot fully understand what they are, we need to make the greatest possible effort to understand their definition of the problem. 
This is a trend that's already happening, not in professional areas like psychology, but particularly also in social media, where people very often go for solace, notes, subreddits, and pages like the Rt Dot. This means that given that this is therefore also a narrative, the most likely counterfactual given the majority of people, particularly like young progressive people who push this narrative, this is then tied to survival. The idea that if we accept the definition of our friends problem, and if you offer them the kind of support they need, they're more likely to get through this easily, which therefore then mechanize with all wants and we get more efficient , also goes to the media, right? You're probably going to Google things you want to get some kind of confirmation your friend will live. And you will Google success stories, all of these success stories when they go on Ellen DeGeneres, or when they have long articles in The Guardian talk about people who fought the disease, found positivity in their life, and they prevail. Notice the skew distribution, because you only see the people who survive. Dead people don't talk. But this artificially shifts the belief in the people who surround you, the Connect fighting to survival, and they change the way they react to you, even if they naturally wouldn't, which is the key mechanism to mechanize government in this debate? What is the counterfactual? Then the counter patch is a narrative of free choice, and this is something that's already happening in a lot of other similar areas. For example, in the mental health awareness community, there is a lot of backlash against the term of toxic positivity. So the idea that you should look at everything through like the most rosy sunglasses, you should find it you should focus on the sunny side. They say, No, everyone carries their own cross and their own burden, and given that we cannot fully understand what they are, we need to make the greatest possible effort to understand their definition of the problem.
But let's take opening opposition at their best within this debate. Let's say that survival is a benefit in and of itself, although we're unsure like this. The narrative that they're pushing is harmful for health. The idea that you should not seek emotional support because you will burden others, or this will show that you are weak, the idea that you doubt whether or not you are too weak and whether or not you're burdened people around you too much is emotional stress on the body. It makes you uncomfortable to discuss
your issues. This kind of doubt, this kind of stress has literal physiological reactions in terms of how your body copes with its illness. Stress is one of the primary predictors of survival or death from terminal illnesses insofar as your emotional state is likely to be extremely vulnerable in that situation and you're likely to think that you are not doing enough this harms your capacity to respond to the illness but secondly it affects the decisions you make. You are less likely to want to force your family to like take a credit or whatever
to pay for your treatment. You're less likely to delegate duties to family and friends, things you would otherwise do, but now you cannot because you have to preserve your strength. You are less likely to be careful in so far as you're going to expose yourself to more risks, to more strain, or even like to more health hazard because sometimes leaving the house is a risk of exposing yourself to infection because you want to show on the outside that you're positive, that you're retaining a positive outlook and that people around you can live their lives normally, shifting that kind of behavior, meaning shifting that type of normalcy. But this means that you deplete your strength, this emotional and physiological strain is what exacerbates your symptoms, makes your body and your mind less able of reacting to that disease. So insofar as they want to prevent harm in the form of people well dying, they are more likely to exacerbate that, but they're also more likely to have a harm, inherently, insofar as the symptoms themselves are worse, and the family also sees this, and it's a harm in the family. The reason why this thing is the debate is because it takes opposition at their highest ground, even if we say that survival is a parent goal in this round. But the last thing I want is guilty, and the mechanism of how guilt works. Before we move on to how that works, opening opposition. 

<poi>
An inherent part of a fight is struggle. you're allowed to struggle in a fight, and you're allowed to show that struggle this narrative, isn't about strength. it is about struggle inherently?
</poi>

Yes, if we discuss it theoretically, know that even the strongest people are likely to move towards doubt in these situations, you are facing the strongest existential dread you have ever faced. Everything around you all support structures and feelings of protein are grumbling. This means that the negativity is probably the rational psychological reaction insofar as they're already going through grief and physiological strain so you're less able to rationalize and move towards positivity which means even if what you're saying is rational you're more likely to perceive the situation as if it is a lost cause as if you cannot talk to others as if you are being a burden on them that's the key difference and this also plays very well into how my point works how does guilt work and i explained this earlier when we see representations in the media right people are very often commended for the fact that they fought you are such a fascinating person you are so selfless, you devoted yourself to your family and let them live a normal life, even though you are fighting so hard. This creates a perception or to be a good person, to be selfless. But all of us want you need to be like them. Otherwise, you underachieving. You're not achieving the bar set for being a selfless person in this kind of situation, and it feeds into the doubt you're already feeling. They're very susceptible to this. So even if the people around you are empathetic, as opening opposition says, you're less likely to want to access that empathy insofar as you think that saying that you have a problem, saying that you need someone to do something for you is inherently bad and makes you feel like you're losing the struggle. But secondly, if you survive, and this is very important one, you're very likely to feel survival guilt, because you will feel that every situation where your survival was dependent on others was something you have to repay them for, and you feel a feeling of death rather than being able to enjoy relationships in your life normally. But secondly, you're also likely to feel contempt for people that do not fight this transit into your other relationships, people who need your emotional support, into how you raise your children. You're more likely to push them to be fighters, because you connected that to survival, and you will not give other people the support they need if they're different from you, which is a third party harm in this debate for all of these reasons, we beg to vote for closing.
</mg>

<mo>
We are going to close the gap in the opening opposition we're going to explicitly explain you why in absence of this narrative, the alternative narrative that is going to be created, also engaging with CG, is going to be more problematic and worse for people with terminal diseases rather than not. But just before that, let's clarify one thing. There are multiple different types of diseases that aren't like cancer. Like for example, autoimmune diseases also exist that are like threatening, but aren't to the same extent as this. And treatment and early treatment towards these sorts of things can drastically make the life better of different types of people. This is very important when we get to
impact of the debate. One point of rebuttal towards causing government rest of it is integrated. We think that the choice about you coming out to people isn't as free as they claim to be. It's usually binary. Why? Because when you tell one person, they're likely to tell the other person because they think that this is an important news that many people need to know in this particular moment. So when your thoughts are definitely going to be a hard place. Let's get into framing. I do think that the alternative narrative is likely to be problematic. Three specific reasons. Firstly, notice that these specific diseases are like small portion of society. 
limited quantity of people are seeing these sorts of things like cancer, autoimmune disease, etc. So it's not something we generally talk about. It's not something that's used on a daily basis, etc. And there is a general, notice this is a regression motion. This is important. This is from the past. Generally there is a feeling that these are specific situations that we're talking about. Second reason, notice that it's very problematic to talk about these subjects. These subjects are in many cases disgusting and associated with biological problems with death. With death, it's usually very hard for people to talk to and usually stay away from these sorts of things. Why?
people have an inherent mechanism to not want to engage in these sorts of things because they see it as bad, because they see it as problematic to them. So the reason why a narrative will be problematic. Not that people have limited capacity to engage in such sort of things. They have their job, they have their responsibilities, they have their own competing interests, like policy, politics, these sorts of things. So they're not necessarily likely to ground themselves into these places. Let's be clear here. What happens then? Notice that on their side of the house, people do not have cut clear
cut rules as to what necessarily they'll have to say. They will most likely opt in and drop into the specific of their like versions of these particular of these particular people. What is the likely version than what you're thinking of? This is a dead man walking. This is someone who is likely to going to die in the future, etc. What happens on our side of the house with this narrative? There are specific models of behavior that you're likely that you know subconsciously. We're taking all the other tests in this note. You have subconsciously to do and be supportive of them. Tell them it's going to get better. Do these sorts of things, be positive and
So, you know, this will be the opening opposition, by the way, because they never put this on the platform. Let's get into again the mechanism. First mechanism. We think it's easier for you to come out with these sorts of diseases and talk with people once we get once we once these sorts of deals. Why is this? Why is this the case? Notice that first people don't want to come out because of fear. Fear that they may receive a bad reaction towards themselves. Fear that they may see some kind of specific thing that will happen to them. They're not wanting to see the truth, etc. But second mechanism. Note that you don't want other people to think that 
things for your family. So when you come out and say like for example I have cancer or autoimmune diseases etc. People are thinking that we're doing oh shit his family is going to have a hard time, they're going to have problems, they're going to have these sorts of things because they're going to lose someone who is bringing the pet etc. These sorts of things. Note this is proportional because of the reasons that we said people don't necessarily want to come out in this particular moment. Now why does this change the narrative important here? What mechanisms?
What is the Western civilization in people in the West, etcetera, genre, view heroes and heroic ships and fighting as something very important. It is in great in the society and it's an image that is easily associated with. You have multiple outlets of how you can see these sorts of things, heroes in movies, books, etcetera. And you have positive aspects associated with these sorts of things, charisma, fighting, good narratives and good associations in your circle. When the decision happens, you're likely to click as if this is something positive. The second thing, though, is that people who have, because this now
has been going to. People who have survived and defeated the disease because we thought there's a white political disease, there's a white political disease of different diseases can capitalize and say, look, I have won. I have did all of these sorts of things. The post is possible for you to do all these things. Well, you can be the disease. I was important because some consciousness tells people that there is hope. There is something to do in these particular cases. It's just the perception that you as someone who has autoimmune disease, cancer, et cetera, know that you may receive positive reaction and help based on this
particular reason why you will come out earlier or come out in general about these sorts of diseases and give the information as fast as possible. Why is this so important? Three four impacts based on this. Firstly, When you come out and when you tell these sorts of things, it's like an anvil drop from your head. You are more likely to feel good about it. You're more likely to feel confident you can hold the truth and the reverse is also true. When you have not told people, when you have not said that you have these sorts of problems, it's like an extremely bad burden. 
on yourself. You dwell on this disease progresses and you feel even more bad and more bad. Secondly, strictly part-time. It's new ones here. Also later on the line, but we view this is problematic also because we don't see it as fast enough. You are likely to skip out an important treatment that may be the difference between you being able to continue your life or surviving. Third reason, notice that when this narrative exists, you deciding to fight the disease also is opted out. Why?
Because usually in the alternative, when this positive narrative doesn't doesn't exist, and when, for example, your your family on both this important frame here, by the way, your family on both sides of the house will want you to fight the disease. Why? Because on both sides of the house, they want equally, for you to survive in these particular moments, because they want you to live. Before I wanna take CG, 

<poi>
given that people probably naturally want to survive. And as you say, your family also wants you to survive, or at least some members of your family do. Why is the...
</poi>

No? No? Because, because in these sorts of situations, you're irrational. In the alternative, you don't know how to react in these particular situations. It's not an important issue. It isn't as talked about as possible. You don't have the specific outlines as to what you're supposed to do. this is the this is the comparatively proved you with your authority if it's worse you need contributions to your CO, but why is this important because when you do this particular situation, you're more likely to opt in into the treatment they would likely do not fight with your family should you not like want to engage in these sorts of behavior, and this is important impact because you don't have family infighting you're more likely to be one particular working. Fourth impact and this is probably the most important one
This isn't like the binary thing, right? Over time, you can specifically engage on your own versions of what this is likely to be. You can see what your version is, how to what extent you're fighting the chemotherapy, etcetera. When you're talking about choice in this debate, there is a metric. You have more choice when you have undergone the treatment and later on in the line, you can make yourself your own version of the world, etcetera, to continue or to not continue, to do specific things or to not do specific things. This is quite possibly the most important thing in this particular debate exclusively for me from closing opposition directly engaging with the CG for all these. Proud to oppose
</mo>

<gw>
Greetings in this speech, counterfactual mechanisms and impacts and why we win on all three of this. recognize that i want to ask this in a POI to opening opposition, so that they talk about this a lot more, so that they kind of like win over opening garment, but they didn't want to accept the POI. but we recognize that just because you've done away with not one narrative in the motion that does not say that it's the dominant narrative. That doesn't mean that other narratives, do not remain there, specifically with the narrative of pity, and I think that causing opposition are correct and they recognize this and say that there's a potential problem with OGs and OOs case on that the other narratives could replace the one that we are dealing away with. I think this is why it's important that we are the only team who has the analysis in Dean's extension on why this is not the case. I think there's two levels of dealing with a counterfactual here. One is that OG and OO talk on an internal level. And I think this is largely not comparative in this debate, right? Because your internal motivations do change to some extent based on the narratives influence, but I want to talk about how
the narratives themselves in the narrative market of ideas shape. And I think this is the most important than second rate impact to how you personally view the world without engaging with this specific part. There, there cannot be impacts that determine whether you're more likely to survive or less likely to survive, which is what both opening government and opening opposition try to do in this debate. That's why when I asked the POI about the mechanism, opposition is like, Oh yeah, OG and OO both consider there's some sort of influence, but that's because they fail to look at the whole
picture of what is influencing people's survival trip or like against cancer when they talk and when they deal their cases. So this is why it's important that we show you why the narrative will not be replaced by pity or some other coercive narrative. I think opening government also, uh, consists that this is very important in this debate when the DPM, Janko, in his speech says that they hate all narratives. That means without the MEC that we provide, that acknowledges that there's not going to be another narrative, their case is a lot of
a lot of good content, but it's not comparative because other things are going to happen instead of this. I think that the relationship between fight and PD is a one where the fighter narrative feeds the pity narrative and they are then reinforcing once another. If we move the fighter narrative, that means that we are largely going to remove the pity narrative as well, which is the concern that we get from closing opposition. And here's why. I think that the fighter one is the one which you like show to other people. 
you are with the family or as I'm going to explain later this is not the most important mechanism as OG assumes but other influences on your on your being such as when listening to other survivors or when listening to the media and all of these other things this is what you get as an influence on you right so the outwards projects towards the influence that there is a narrative that you need to be a fighter but the problematic part of this is that on the other hand when you are not in the room all of these people are talking about how pale you look or how you cannot move
or how you cannot breathe. And this is a narrative of pity, right? Why does this happen? Because it's important to show that this is not chicken or the argument here, because you feel that the person has a lot of extra things to do because you have applied the fight narrative. You have applied the duty to fight towards the person. And you cleanse your mind in this way by then providing a counter narrative when you talk with other people about how pity you are for the struggle that they have to persist right now, which is why you feel bad for them
and you're talking with other folks who are also seeing the person, but when you talk to the person, then you are all you need to be so brave and so brave. This is a much more nuanced characterization of how the narratives are actually shaping each other. And this is why in the absence of this, we are left with what team pros is the best option for people who are battling diseases in this case. And this is that they own shape and form their narratives and that people around them are not under the influence of any of these narratives mechanisms. 
OG relies mostly on your near the near surroundings family. I think when you have cancer, what's probably true for you is that you are in the hospital or any other serious disease, which means that your family can only be with you one hour a day and you cannot have your cell phone all the time, especially if you're old blah blah. Probably what's more important to you is the influence of media is the influence of doctors is the influence of the people who are under the influence of the survivors perspective, right? Which is why when we talk about the idea of survivors being important here, you internalize if you survive,
fight as part of why you survived. You do not say I was lucky or you do not say I changed my habits. I stopped smoking or stopped eating. But you say I was a fighter. I was in the mindset that my serotonin is going to defeat cancer. This is very detrimental because you then because spread this message to other people. When people go on media generally the whole impression of people who should be fighting a serious disease is that they need to be fighters. But the important thing to recognize here is that this mechanism comes a lot
less from the immediate family surroundings, or a lot non-comparative in this idea, except for the mixing of the pity versus the fighter narrative, but mostly from people who have much more influence on you in this situation, because probably like people will either way, it's non-comparative that you're not gonna talk about cancer in your family, because this is going to be a difficult topic, even if you are not a fighter and all of this. What does this mean about impact then? And I think we win on this as well. First of all, OG talk a lot about death or near-death experiences,
and they don't talk about your will. They talk about your will and not doing your will and not confessing or closure, blah, blah, blah. What we prove is that your likelihood of surviving is a lot less under their side of the house. I think this is the most important impact. I'll explain this after I take a POI from all.

<poi>
The feelings of despair are not a narrative. They're intrinsic to the arduous treatment process. Without the narrative of fight, you're left. You're left at the mercy of those feelings of despair.
</poi> 

Yeah. I told you are fighting the clash that you fought with OG already and I'm not sure who wins there because humans are biologically, you know what, you know, this is fight or flight. Humans are both biologically, how is it, predisposed to flight as or wants them to believe or OG to fight, which is why you should have both engaged in the narrative clash but you didn't. On surviving, we show you why you are less likely to survive because you are more likely to fight, not be on the defensive let's say and I don't know, stop smoking or start walking. 
or stop eating fat and all of this shit that you need to do in order to defeat your disease. But this is crucial because it lets people live more than what opening opposition wants to prove in this debate. This actually shows that people are more likely to survive comparatively with the idea on opening opposition that you get more serotonin and you're going to fight cancer on this behalf. I think secondly, this goes above opening government's impacts, especially with young folks who are already feeling superior to the disease. I think this shows them most the willingness to survive or this improves their
chances, right? Because when the narrative is not that you need to be a fighter or that someone needs to feel pity for you, this is when you can objectively then assess what the best theft over survival is. Sometimes it's very good that you are on a defensive and that you withdraw on the battlefield. The same thing is hypothetically spitting with the disease here that you start shifting your changes and not believe that you can overcome everything. Thank you. 
</gw>

<ow> 
While both governments are fighting over who has the right counterfactual we are already winning this debate. Frankly, we did already win this debate. Why though? First of all, it's important to understand that our analysis is not contingent on fighter being replaced by pity. And this is extremely what Rumen's analysis gives you. While this was actually pointed out by the previous question by open, they told you, we're not talking about a counter narrative. We're talking about the feelings of despair. But this is actually where Rumen gives you three analytical
reasons as to what exactly are going to be the influences over you when you get that information and how you're going to react based on those influence. He talks about having the ability basically to have limited time to make a decision. He talked about how hard it is to talk about this in particular, especially since you just found about it, you don't have a lot of information. But thirdly, and most importantly, and this is something that we need to point out very directly, that Rumen
explains to you the counterfactual in the context of information. Because he explains to you very directly, this fight mentality pictures the people as heroes, as positive people, which makes them them when they receive that information and they start fighting, prone to talk about it publicly more. This means that there is going to be a very big discrepancy of information that you have on the
the sides of the house. On their side of the house, there's going to be likely to be much less, less people who have been in your situation in the first place. But secondly, and most importantly, have talked about their own experience, meaning that you get much less of a chance to actually basically get the right information and then make the choices that you believe to do so. This is why we'll win this debate. So the counterfactual that we really establish is no guidelines versus
some guidelines. And we say on our side of the house, it is far more likely to have certain initial guidelines. Now, how is this important in the long term? It is important because at this particular moment, when you're in that cabinet, when you receive that information, you have extremely emotional, you're impacted by your current previous notions of the world and what is important. And if you're the average individual, you're probably not an intellectual debater. You probably haven't thought about
What is your concept of life and death what what what is happen or what is happening? You're sick of all of this new information and this basically complete shaking of your world and you're likely to act drastically This is the moment in which you don't you you   do bad things such as take a big bad loan such as Maybe harm somebody else because you don't believe that I think any replications are impactful This is the moment in which you
you do stupid things such as, for example, fight with some members or not to reconciliation with other people, etcetera, etcetera. This is the moment in which, in some cases, you take your own life because in that particular moment, you feel like that. And this is why we believe at that moment, when you're in that cabinet and you get that code, you get cancer, you get an autoimmune or whatever, it is important for you to have at least a lot
impact of existing narrative that provides you certain guidelines. And what we say on the comparative is that over time, you still have that choice whether to accept that narrative or not accept it. And we feel that you're in a much better position over time to make that decision than what is in government cases. Now, moving on to a couple of important rebuttals. I think that firstly, let's start with CG,
I think that CG's case, although they try to prove you certain new narrative is pretty much derivative of opening. They basically talk about free choice of individuals and where you have more ability. It's the same impact. It doesn't really matter. I see, I see you always agree with me right over there. But most importantly is that you need to, you need to understand that what we show you is the discrepancy of media information. And this is where we believe that choice is much more limited of their set of values. 
reason why number one. Second reason is in terms of you getting more and more information. Because look, ask yourself, which choice is better? The informed one, the one lived to personal experience, or the one which is based on your previous notions of that, which were never, never really that close. And this is what we believe is important. So opening government says, well, you still have biological urges, you're still going to fight. 
This is fight or flight mechanism. this is not how actually it works. so fight or flight mechanism works on their side. in the case in which somebody is stopping me directly, it doesn't work in terms of me receiving that information and then deciding what to do. so this is completely out of the debate. what's most importantly here? let's talk about agency. two important reasons. Firstly, it is depends on the individuals itself. So really, we can't claim one narrative over the other, how much it impacts individually, what we're seeing here is that this existing narrative provides for the individuals who would rather do drastic stupid shit when they found out this information is that now they have some guidelines as to whether maybe they should at least try to fight and not over time when you're receiving that new information proven why this is much better on our side of the line. Why you meet people who have been in your issues, why you search about survivors which you wouldn't have in their second account. While you talk about this with individuals you start to create your own philosophy and position on what you should do you care about living, or do you not care about is the life you're living worth it, or is it not worth it? this is the moment in which you make the right choice. it's not just about, oh my god. all people are affected by narratives. i can never make decision for me, acted by narratives in the first place, but the more I live through that situation. And I experience new information. This is the more I actually am able to
have more individual choice. Everything else is debate bullshit about narratives limiting your choices. We're grown up people, we can make our own decisions, especially we have more information. This is how we win this debate. And I think that in these key comparisons, we also prove to you numerous individual impacts, this is how it is easier for you to cooperate and actually talk to your family and how it basically means that it less people coming out helps less
people make the right decision. And I think that all of this and this particular counterfactual being established brings it over over opening in terms of why exactly despair is going to happen and what despair looks like and what is going to happen when you're in that state. Very happy to maybe become a linear world campus or whatever. Let's see how this goes.
</ow>