<pm> 
Panel, the position of opening government today is very simple. We think tying a movement, a political movement, that is progressivism to particular individuals is bad. We think it is bad both for progressive politics and for broader society. We're going to advance four claims in the speech, first on political polarization,then on policy making and policy passing, why we think that there are constraints that would not exist independent of a situation in which you cast light on particular people, third on individual accountability and finally on mis-prioritisation. Look, I think the stance of open government is quite clear by way of model. We regret the creation of icons like AOC, like Bernie Sanders that are discussed in the chat. We think that often these are not created by say the Democratic Party but emerge out of particular events that lift those people to prominence. So for example for AOC it was winning a
 an election, a very safe democratic seat for Bernie was living in Vermont and running for president in 2016. I'll take questions, but I think there are none. Let me know if there are. So on the first argument of political polarization. I think this is quite clear. I think that there is significant over weighting that occurs of particular viewpoints at the points at which you have progressive politics assigned to particular groups of people or particular people like AOC and Bernie Sanders. This is problematic for a number of reasons. First, AOC and Bernie and other progressive political ideologues run in electorates that are extremely safe victories for them, that is AOC ran in a district that would never be won by a republican. She will continue to win elections over and over again, the same is true of Bernie Sanders in Vermont. They run in extremely safe districts and overweight the popular discourse with progressive ideals.
This makes it very easy for competing parties to capture moderates because they can say things like ah Bernie Sanders stands behind socialism, AOC supports things like socialism and we don't like socialism and this echoes and reverberates through elections that do not concern them because their elections in and of themselves are not at risk. People will vote for them independent of their existence as icons. AOC was elected independent of her emergence as an icon, as Bernie Sanders. And the point at which that is true, the question is about the influence that these people have, the undue influence that they have on the movement as a whole and the way that progressivism is cast, because we on open government take a progressivism neutral stance, we think it is a valid political ideology, but we think that to the extent that you think that it is good, It is bad for it to be individually ascribed to people who have very safe elections who are unlikely to do anything but challenge the way that moderates are perceiving things. Right, Like this is why the Trump campaign was so successful by running ads about socialism and communism in Florida, because people are actively scared of the values. The progressive politics is said to stand behind and that they themselves say they stand behind. Things like extreme redistribution is very unpopular in the United States, specifically among the moderate population. That causes a second order harm, which is infighting within the Democratic Party, which means that there are disagreements significantly in the sorts of policy measures that should be passed, which I'll get to in a moment. But fundamentally, it means that the Democratic Party itself fractures. It is unclear what from a big perspective, a big time zoomed out perspective these people are going to campaign for. It is not clear whether they want the more extreme version, which is the progressive ideology subscribed to by few or the more moderate ideology and the Democratic Party itself runs into an issue with marketing both at the same time, it cannot quintessentially be moderate and also extremely progressive simultaneously, meaning that you are always going to upset a range of voters. In most cases, if these icons are as powerful as opposition will want them to be, you're going to upset a lot of moderate voters that are going to push the moderate vote away from progressive candidates. It's going to push them towards more like, you know, conservative candidates. Donald Trump was extremely successful in this election, despite the fact that he is entirely incompetent. And I mean that. So then, thirdly, on impact on turnout, we think that you reduce turnout in the lecture, it's where that election actually matters, and you isolate people from democratic politics in general. Firstly, because people become disenchanted with the democratic party and the left establishment. There are only two parties in the United States, and it's not going to change at any point in the future, presumably unless opposition wants to run a whack job argument that will. To the extent that that is true, we think that the democratic party loses support from individuals who become disenfranchised with the idea that they are not supported by a party. If they themselves subscribe to progressive ideologies. They are fractured away from the Democratic Party because they fail to support candidates that are not as progressive. But for people who oppose progressivism, the Democratic Party fails them also because the existence of icons is an overriding ideology of the party to the extent where people will disagree with the existence of those icons and therefore the fundamental base of the party. Secondly, it is bad for policymaking. That is, AOC now has the mandate not to pass policies that she thinks is anything less than totally redistributive. The Republican Party also has no incentive to pass policy with AOC. Why? Because they hate her, right? Like the right very clearly has a vitriolic hatred for AOC and for Bernie Sanders and for the policies that they stand behind. That means that cross-party negotiation as far less likely to happen at the detriment of a lot of American people. Look to Bernie Sanders intentionally blocking legislation that would help millions of American people because it was not generous enough for them under the presumption that a more generous policy would pass. A sort of idealistic approach to politics is flawed at the point at which you risk the lives of millions of people. When you ascribe that value to those particular politicians because you hold these individuals accountable for that policy changing to the extent that that policy does not change, you become further disenchanted with the efforts of the party. You're far less likely to turn out to vote firstly. But secondly, you're less likely to compromise on policy that is good. 
<poi> Nicole, with the reference to arguments on disenchantment, fracturing, polarization, just to be clear, are you against progressive politics being practiced in America or are you against progressive icons specifically? </poi>
 like I already said, we're value neutral and progressive politics. Like I said, it's a value, like it's a valuable ideology as any other is. We think that the assignment of individuals specifically who overweight the discussion with their political narrative is bad. I think that was quite clear. Third though, on, on wrongdoing, the democratic party gets itself into a bit of a double bind at the point at which it puts a lot of value into particular people, into particular individuals, especially those that do not win big ticket elections because AOC is not the president. She is just a member of Congress. 
 What does that mean? First, it means that the individual accountability of those members becomes kind of thrown up in the air. Two reasons. First, the Democratic establishment can't immediately hold these people accountable because it will make it look bad. It looks like it's cracking down on its own base, on its own party base, right? Secondly, though, these people are less likely, even if they are to be held to account, to hold the party to account because to the extent that they want to hold the Dems to account, either A, the Dems just don't run more candidates that expose things within the Democratic Party or B, that creates more infighting in the party that creates instability in their voter base, which means that elections that need to get won, like the runoffs, do not get won. Finally, the priorities of people are like thrown off. I think people are specifically icons concentrate more on their media image and the distribution of information that concerns them than they do about the distribution of information that concerns the average voter in the average electorate about the moderation of politics that most people in the United States, particularly individualistic state actively subscribe to. To the extent that that is true, I think that there is very clear case to regret the iconoclastic form of politics that is described during the status quo, so incredibly proud to affirm. 
</pm>
<lo>
So we think like a lot of problems, proposition side exists on this side of house comparative world anyway, like polarization, as long as there's like progressive proposals there will always be like defamination will always be accusation of these people anyway, so we don't know like what is the comparative benefits from proposition in that sense so uh but before I move on to my constructive speech several response to that so first of all about like that we reject the characterization of what the political icons look like so we understand sometimes some of their proposals may be extreme but extreme doesn't necessarily mean there's only a minority of people being represented by that proposals. As we see in the past, like how it will say, oh like Bernie Sanders campaign goes well, we see like a lot of people are waiting to take this stance and are willing to support this politicians. So we see like when you kind of like, within the comparative world, when there's no such kind of political icons, what is the alternative? It's more likely to be like more like far right, like Donald Trump, that is the alternative. I believe that both house would prefer not. So, before I move on to my constructive speech, what is the most important thing in today's debate? We're saying like, how exactly, what we want on our side house is first of all, we want those more progressive proposals to be more likely to be passed in Congress and to actually be able to mobilize more voters in the campaign, which could establish a long-term awareness and water base that could further make the campaign and proposals in US politics more progressive in the long run. And secondly, we're saying another house, we could have more representation of the people that couldn't be represented or OG misidentified as extreme group of people another house. So how exactly we can do that? What is the creation of political icons we're talking about? A, we're talking about those people, those politicians, they try to mobilize support with social media or with international media coverage to estabish a quite progressive image overall, and secondly we're saying because they depend their political success upon this sort of image, that means they will be kept being held accountable by their supporters as icons in this particular field. Their proposals will be rechecked whether it's within the line of their proposal, the sayings they gave in the campaigns and people, by checking them that holding them accountable for well and after believing that they will become the political icons in a progressive way, people will tend to have more trust on those individuals in comparison with other politicians. And thirdly, we're also saying that these political icons are more likely to use the very progressive proposals to campaign overall. So, why this is comparatively better? We're seeing two things. First of all, how when we have this creation of progressive political icons, we're more likely to having more progressive campaign process that could in the long term produce more progressive and firm voter base. And secondly, why we'll have a better discussion in the Congress that are more likely to making those progressive policies being passed. So that's the first thing. So we're saying how campaign works. When we have those political icons, they mobilize and they try to mobilize their voter base, trying to sell their progressive proposals. That means what is the comparative here, A, we're saying the audience because they understand these people are sort of political icons and will be held accountable by their supporters. That means they will tend to have more trust towards these proposals that other politicians who the audience will view, more likely to be as a strategy to propose those progressive proposals. That means comparatively speaking, those voters who may more likely to be liberal and who may turn towards those progressive tendencies were more likely to go outside to vote because of the trust. And secondly, what is the comparative here is like when you're trying to mobilize things, mobilize those progressive proposals, you're making like this issue more political size, more politicized. Why that is a good thing. Two reasons, two impacts. First of all, we're saying like making people to vote is the fundamental way that we could actually actualize any impacts in a progressive way. That only when people who are asked to vote hold politicians accountable and making pressure in politicians to actually pass policies, we're saying you could actually have all those impacts in a progressive development for the society. But secondly, we're saying we will politicize these issues as a political icons. You are campaigning around the whole nation. That means you're reaching the group of audience who may not know this otherwise in their daily life, but in campaigns there are overwhelming reports on that and as political icons sticking to this position they will keep talking about that which will also reaching like all these other audience even on the opposite side because opposite side will also like engage with the argument during the process so that's to say when we politicize the problem, when we politicize the issues we want to address, those political, those like progressive proposals in a political way we are reaching more audience more likely to reach, more likely to reach a practical outcome and alongside house 
<poi> Yes, Bernie Sanders mobilized some young voters to vote for him, but he also mobilized equally if not more of them to vote against Hillary the general election, which got us four years of Trump. 
</poi>
Alright, So the comparative in that, in your world here is, those people who vote for, like those people who vote for Donald Trump will vote for them anyway, and as we see like Donald Trump has already won because based on mobilizing those extreme voters. But the comparison here is like without Bernie Sanders, you won't have those proposals being proposed in the very first place, and you won't have the proposals to be negotiated in the Congress and in the Democratic parties without this firm voter base, you get as a like political articles. But secondly, how exactly on the outside house you could actually have a progressive progress in the Congress. We're saying as a political icon, what is unique to you is you have a group of people firmly supporting your voter base. Then you will have more staying in the negotiation within the Congress in the first place. And secondly, because of this voter base, even within the Democratic Party, it's more likely that other candidates, even if, for example, Bernie Sanders wasn't selected as the candidate for the Democratic Party, but other candidates were also trying to integrate these proposals within their own proposals to try to like mobilize more voters in that sense. So only with this creation of progressive political icons we can more likely to truly push forward voters into more progressive way and get actual changes from that house. 
</lo>
<dpm>
opening opposition is correct. Progressive politics is going to exist either way because there are people who want progressive politicians. What we've identified for you though is a lot of reasons as to why the specific idea that you tie the movement to individual livelihoods or individual people or personalities is specifically bad. The main thrust of a response that we've got from allo is just the idea that all the arguments we've given you are not exclusive, they'll happen because there are people who want progressive politics. This is incorrect for a bunch of reasons. The first thing to say is that what Nicole told you in pm, which I don't think was appropriately responded to is the idea that you change the movement in a way that discreaditing individuals becomes dicrediting the same thing that is spreading a policy proposal or discreaditing an entire part of the platform, i.e. the idea that you're able to attack AOC for like her background, for example or educational background or able to attack Bernie Sanders for being a millionaire are taken as the same  things as being attackson their platform. That is, the fact that you're able to say, well you know the progressives aren't really doing anything or like look at all these shady stuff Bernie Sanders did like you wrote a book and made so much money, are taken as the same thing and equally as credible as genuine a tax lien policy proposal itself. The problem with this, however, is two things. One, the policies themselves become tainted by their association with individual actors. That is that I think a lot of people will probably be in favor of things like higher wealth taxation, if it weren't for the fact that Bernie Sanders and AOC were the figureheads at the top of that movement. Secondly, though, it means that even in the case where progressive policies and progressive individuals are good on the local level, they become overridden by the association with a progressive icon that has been vilified in the right wing media. The second reason why this is bad, though, is because it causes an immense amount of vitriol that is not as easy to mobilize against individual movement. That is, in the same way as conservatives are not motivated to vote in elections because they hate Joe Crowley or they hate Harry Reid, they are motivated to vote in elections because they hate AOC, which means that even if they're able to access the increases in turnout, the opening opposition thinks are important. The problem is that it is symmetric, which is that the vitriol you induce on the other side will outweigh the vast majority of the marginal increase in the voter trend, you will get from having maybe a marginally more charismatic candidate on their side. The second thing to say, though, and this is particularly important with regards
policy change arguments that is advancing, as that becomes far harder to unify or pass on the baton, even within the progressive movement. That is, the easy example of this is that Bernie and Warren, for example, during the 2020 election, while being very ideologically similar, had supporters who were frequently clashing with each other and refused to support the other after one dropped out. The problem with this, then, is that because you tied a specific, you tied your ideology, not to the fact that you are a progressive, but be that you are a Bernie supporter or that you are a Warren supporter, means that it is incompatible for you or it is very difficult for you to support other individuals with similar ideologies just because they are different individuals. The reason why this is particularly harmful is if you care about things like long-term change or if you care about broadly the idea that you can move the populace to the left, it's bad to tie to individuals who are by definition temporary. It's much better to do things that tie to broad-based societal movements. And obviously it is true that you are able to mobilize support without the need for individual icons. There are plenty of movements that are largely not dependent on the charisma of individuals. You see Black Lives Matter movement, it's not clear as to why opening oppositions arguments are necessarily exclusive to what they're telling you about. The third thing to say, however, under this is that they're just a difference in priorities, in the way that you pass policy. This isn't just the argument that we gave you in pm which is the idea that progressiveicons are likely to block legislation for the sake of advancing their own national image. It's also the idea that there's a difference in priorities in terms of campaigning. That is, that AOC sends a ridiculous amount of time trying to primary democrats in like safe districts and not nearly as much time as she could, for example campaigning for people in purple states or in battleground states, places where the election genuinely affects whether their policy will pass or not. The important characterization to remember is this, all of the mobilization that OO wants to talk about happens with largely progressive voters who are already in districts that already will vote for democratic policymakers. This means, one, that they don't have the leverage that they talk about to actually enact new policy because these people are in districts in states that just don't matter during most elections. And two, to the extent that they become more popular, it's not clear that they move the districts or move the national conversation meaningfully more left than they actually care about. Specifically then, some extraneous rebuttal to opening opposition.
 The broad thrust of the ideas that we get is that you can progressive icons are able to use their image to advance certain ideologies that would otherwise not necessarily be as popular. Obviously, we've told you reasons as to why these images are likely not to be nearly as popular as I think they think they are. But the idea that you're able to mobilize progressives and force individuals to adopt things in the party platform is something that presumably happens naturally over time, i.e. the independence of the rise of progressive political icons like Bernie Sanders or AOC, you still have the Democratic Party moving left and adopting more leftist positions on race relations and climate change. So presumably the sport of the process of evolution is something that likely occurs on either side. The difference, however, is the process of the reaction by individuals on the other side of the movement. Because when you tie movements and tie policies, the identity of individuals, it becomes so much harder to differentiate the two and so much easier to do things in ways that are just so, so much worse for the movement. 
 
<poi> This is a this house that regrets debate, not a this house opposed this debate. Give me the counterfactual so you have a chance. 
</poi>
Yes, the counterfactual we envision is a world where progressive politics still exists, but it is not tied to the fate of individual politicians. That is, we are happy for perhaps as politicians to exist on either side. We just think that you should not be like AOC is the progressive movement. Rather, we think it should be that there are progressive politicians who share a common set of ideologies, i.e. we prefer the civil rights movement, for example, that is unified around a common set of policy proposals, not a world where it is tied to individuals that we think is particularly so harmful. Why then is this something that is particularly impactful in this debate? Firstly, to the extent you care about polarization, the problem is that it's easy to immobilize vitriol against individuals for their personal flaws or things they might have done in the past. It's less easy to debate the merits of a policy. This is something opening opposition themselves told you, where they told you that you need rational debate about policy to get things on the table. This only happens in a world where policies are not tied to specific individuals because then they become synonymous with these people and it is far easier to attack them. Secondly, though, to the extent that you care about the ability for individuals to pass policy, presumably you do not want people with outsized influence single-handedly blocking policy, i.e. AOC by herself as an individual person would not be able to block the CARES Act, or Bernie Sanders would not be able to block the stimulus bill, but by virtue of their status as icons, they're able to do so and stall valuable help that helps individuals just because it doesn't align with their personal political goals. This means then that to the extent you care about long-term progressive policy, the analysis is incredibly simple. The fact that politicians are inherently wanting to advance their own interests creates a world where it is actually worse for the progressive movement. That is the fact that you are seen as doing things like blocking things that would help people, the fact that moderates who lost in the 2020 election are blaming AOC and other progressive congress people for losing them that election is something that decreases the willingness to work together within parties, which makes it far harder to pass this legislation, because regardless of what opening opposition wants to think, the simple fact is that in order to pass legislation now or even decades into the future is necessary for you to get cooperation within your party. The fact that you fracture parties, the fact that you make it harder to pass on leadership in the long run is something that makes substantially more difficult. To the extent then that you tie movements, the fate of individuals, the problem is that individual fallibility becomes an excuse for attacking the merits of a policy. We're very, very proud to stand in proposition. 
</dpm>
<dlo>
The first thing we're going to talk about is polarization. What would have changed on both sides and what would have stayed constant because that was the burden opening government needed to win this debate. The second thing we're going to talk about are political barriers where they would have changed and where they would have been beneficial. And then we're going to talk about this idea of deproitization and why that's an actual asset to the Democratic Party. After all of that, I'm going to explain to you explicitly with mechanisms why individuals and focusing these movements around individuals is better than the counterfactual, which would have been policy concerns. Let's talk about polarization. Opening government tell you that you get an overweighting of progressive politics, which means that Democrats can't get like moderate votes But also you get like anti-socialism rhetoric that Trump becomes powerful, the Republicans become powerful, a number of responses. Firstly the Democratic Party needs Progressivism as a check and balance the problem with opening government's case is that they assume that the Democratic Party is this neutral and fair arbiter and therefore the progressive icons have acted like this overweighting force without any contextualization of what the Democratic Party actually looks like. Three mechanisms here, firstly the old guard and the people who pull the strings within the democratic party in 2016 and even up to now although that is changing as a result of this motion, are like red democrats and like more right-leaning democrats. Those are people like Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer who get to make the kind of appointments and get, and therefore get to determine like who gets power within the democratic party, what the image of the democratic party is. Secondly the party is funded by many right-leaning interests who fund both sides of the political spectrum which pulls both parties towards this kind of moderate status so people feel as though there is no fucking change in society. But finally, I think the democratic's presidential super delicate system allows these moderate politicians and old God to cement power in a way which means that for the vast majority of people who even vote for the Democrats, but just people on the outside, it doesn't seem like there is any genuine concern for ordinary people. This is one of the biggest reasons that Trump won the election in the first place in 2016, because of this idea of draining the swamp. Then they, then I think the second general comment is that America is changing demographically. We accept their one single example that people who are Hispanic and who live in Florida happen to vote republican. But we think this was a result of a very specific wave of immigrants from socialist leaning countries like Cuba and Venezuela. The general trend, however, is one of four things, for all three things. Firstly, mass urbanization of individuals and a convergence towards cities, which is why, for example, we saw surprising results in the state of Nebraska, which sure didn't turn into a democratic state, but had a ridiculous turnout for Democrats in places like Omaha, which is only growing in number as a percentage of the population of these republican rural areas. Secondly, more college educated people which is filtrating throughto the suburbs which is why biden was able to win massive suburbs, suburbs which the democrats have not won in decades. Thirdly, I think there is an increase as a general percentage of the population of african-american and non-anti-communist hispanic people, people from states of mexico or central america, guatemala, which who are more likely to support likely to have things like political enfranchisement, like well-funded healthcare and education systems. That means the general trend is one towards progressivism in US politics and so we don't regret that the Democrats were getting ahead of the curve. We think they are likely to see results in the future as a result of getting ahead of the curve. The third general comment here is that Republicans engage in polarization on both sides of the house. Trumpism has existed since 2016 and is here to stay. We think that republicans are pushing a polarizing alt-right narrative which is why a lot of the stuff that opening government talk about is uncomparative. So for example a lack of cross-party policy making which note was their mechanism as to why you get less policy points passing a more  disenfranchisement has been a literal reality of the Trump administration because they have been pushing policy so far to the right that no even moderate democrat can support those policies and you've seen like a stasis within the within congress. I think what this means is that moderates have less choice on both sides and have to settle on both sides, which means that you don't necessarily lose them as opening government claim because they also are reluctant to vote for Trump. But more importantly, just on a factual note, moderates voted for Biden despite like this progressive trend existing due to Trumpism and like its abandonment of the norms and rules of how you just engage fairly in politics. If anything, what this should tell you is that moderates have to lean towards the Democrats and therefore, given there's not really a massive harm of losing them, this is a critical juncture between 2016 and 2020 to add progressivism to the agenda. Secondly, let's talk about prioritization. I think the thing about this is even if the Democrats stay moderate on both sides and progressivism is small, the icon status of these people within the progressivism movement is an asset to the national party as a whole because you now have somebody to send to these kind of growing cities in Wisconsin or Omaha in Nebraska to get town out in polarizer swing states. I think the mistake that opening government make is to assume that swing states are ones which are just full of moderate people. No, they are states which are full of polarized people. It's just about who can mobilize their polarized people more than the other side. I think that these guys are a key asset to do that. 
<poi> The green new deal is expected to cost 10 trillion dollars which is 10 times the average expenditure of the state under the status quo Why are progressive policies good?
</poi>
I think this is a check and balance, some people support the green new deal, some people don't vote and most people feel like they're choosing the best of both worlds. We think that progressivism is good in so far as it's giving people options and insofar as it's moving democrats away from the statsis where they agree with modern republicans on things like no healthcare, so sure the green new deal might be a bit problamatic but like on balance we think that progressivismis good for the party. Why is it then that individuals are better centralization points than the counterfactual. I think there are benefits of individuals of the following. Firstly, it has provided hope and mobilization by centralizing a person and a narrative who you can big up and like really make seem like an important person and somebody who can give you that aspiration to go out and vote or to make small scale donations. I think secondly, the essential media interactions just create a level of relatability. Why is this important? This is so important. It means that they don't seem like the swamp which the Trumpists are talking about, which has moved people towards republicanism. 
 It means that they are more likeable in a post-fact era where people are able to believe in random facts on both sides and random policies. It is trust in politicians which is going to determine who people vote for. That is the comparative. That is why OO is winning top half. </dlo>
<mg>
The democratic party is going to be less progressive under our side of the house. That is, one, as per opening oppositions's analysis, that is, you have a presumption for the establishment which has a vast amount of money in the party that can fund people's campaigns and set the agenda that is only checked by icons who get huge amounts of donations, for instance by appearing on twitch. That's also I think necessaryfor og's case make sensebecause what they're saying is that you're far more likely to get people opposing the radical policies of the left under opposition. But notice that if it is the policies that stay exactly the same and just the figures, they're basically only contained to them like the mechanism which says people complain because AOC went to Brown, which probably precludes them from getting the vast majority of their benefits because I'm not sure that genuinely is the reason the Democrats have ever won or lost an election. The first thing I want to do is explain why progressive politics and progressive policies are bad for the Democratic Party. 
 The thing that is important here is under our side of the House, we will still have progressive people because large numbers of voters will still be relatively progressive and still probably in primaries, pushed for better policies than apparently no healthcare, which I don't think has ever been the standard that the party has gone for. The comparison is that the capacity to be extremely radical is far more possible on the desk at the House when individual icons are not constrained by moderates who predominantly fund the party, but instead are people who get their own independent sources of funding,
 Most of the time from the most radical college-educated people who haven't really had a job or have any experience of the world, but think that the more radical you are, the more woke you are, and therefore fund these people under their side of the house. Why is advocating for this stuff bad? One, we think that these policies are often extremely expensive or extremely inefficient. That is, they give huge amounts of power to a government bureaucracy which has huge numbers of people working within the system, often receiving jobs which make the private sector anti-competitive and therefore in the long term decrease the capacity for jobs to be provided people and have enormous cost overruns. That's why the US despite spending so much on welfare does so badly on almost all statistics of welfare because it's just so badly run but these policies and never cut because they're always, those cuts are always opposed by the progressive wing, but the second reason that these are bad is that these people as have been pointed out frontline aspirational policies rather than feasible policies. That is the example we give you, they pust for things like the green new deal with nobody that the green new deal could ever be implemented merely because they want to say here is a list of all the things we think is wrong with society. The problem is that when these people are able to advocate for these things, they force the rhetoric of the rest of the parties to start campaigning on the lines of these policies, which is why then these terrible policies are something that the rest of the people are sandbagged with in elections. Why is this important? One, I think we give you reasons why we still get some, like we still get some progressive policies that are side, but not this extremely bad policy that empirically given Democrats do win is likely to be implemented at some point, which means opening opposition. Two, I think this significantly resolves the deadlock in the top half because OO are like, well, we can inform and excite people and see, OG are like, well, this can be radical, it's going to turn away moderates, and in some swing states, apparently moderates important and others. We want to excite people by dividing but, if we can tell you that the policies themselves are so intrinsically unreasonable, then that is good reason to believe that the vast majority of people, even low income people who want help don't believe that these are feasible ways for helping them, which is a significantly better reason they're unlikely to be electable in the future. Second thing, the other thing I'd like to note is that we think that one reason these policies now more likely  to be implemented which is bad for the reason we give you is that these people are now able to hold the democratic party into account and it's significantly harder for the democratic party tp push for moderate policies under their side of the house. OG tells you the AOC doesn't vote for moderate policies. I think they don't tell you why other progressive politicians would be likely to, but given we told you the mechanism which is there beholden to the money from the rest of the party, there's a significantly better reason than where I'd like you to capture these benefits under our side of the House. Next thing I want to talk about in that extension is what campaigns are likely to look like under both sides of the House. 
<poi> Logically extending your argument on electability and polarization. Do you think the Democrat Center should move further to the right?
</poi>
 I'm not sure that's what we're committed to, right? Because what we're not saying is that there is some optimum policy, although plausibly they should move to the right, but that the kinds of policies that icons are going to frontline will be so radical and so extreme that they're unreasonable. Let's talk about campaigning. The fact that these people are able to extract huge amounts of attention means that they affect significantly the way that primaries and presidential elections are run. What happens is that when Biden runs for office, he is unable to take a substantive policy commitment on any particular issue.
 That is when Trump asks Biden, do you stand behind AOC or not? Biden just doesn't answer the question. Two reasons why this is down to the success of progressive politics and which is down to icons. The first is that these people represent a significant voter base that Biden doesn't want to upset, which means that this often trades off against promoting real legitimate policy that actually could be implemented. So as a fear of avoiding upsetting moderates and progressives, instead, candidates take no commitments. The second, in order to win the primaries, these candidates will often have to have taken more progressive stances, which means that they're therefore unable to go back and say we're not going to be implementing these progressive politics. Instead, what they often do is just not comment on what they're likely to do. Why are these bad things? The first thing is the party is significantly less likely to excite new voters. That is, unlike what OO says, because premises having radical policies is good. We never get any policies frontlined in national elections because it's either toxic to the modical or radical wing of the party. 
 That means people who genuinely want some hope about some feasible change in their lives never get any sign that the party is going to account for that. That is far more important than the college educated radicals who want extreme party who are to a significant extent already accounts for or moderates who to a large extent are middle class. The second thing is this incites the possibility of personality politics because instead of Republicans being challenged by saying where is the policy you pass that made people better for the people you claim to when there is no policy commitments merely statements about what you stand for. 
 very easy for Republicans to have the same empty rhetoric and never actually have policies which improve the lives of these people for the foreseeable future under their side of the House. What are the impacts of the arguments? The first is I think we should be relatively agnostic about what policies matter and say that democracy is important in as much as people don't vote for policies under their side of the House, we're significantly better off. Two, we are far more likely to have the least well-off represented because these people are not people that turn out in primaries
 but instead of people that are neglected by virtue of the fact that in presidential elections, the Democrats never take substantive policy commitments. The third is that whether or not the Democrats win, we're likely to have significantly better policy for the vast majority of people because actually talking about policies is something that will make the Republicans significantly more accountable and less likely just to elect the white person who is better at spinning the narrative about how AOC is terrible. 
</mg>
<mo>
Before moving on to my susbtantive, two points on cg. One, they have clearly knifed the opening government was trying to say. Opening government said, we're going to be morally ambiguous about whether progressive politics is a good or bad idea, cg explicitly comes up and says, progressive politics is a bad idea, they can't run both things on government bench. The second thing I will note is how uncomparative cg has been because notice he logical collateral of the argument that these guys are presenting is, the democrats should try to be as moderate as possible so that they can get either modern moderate policies through but also mobilize support which means that we should become more towards the right. I just want to know that this is the reason why there are so many apathetic voters in the united states of america to begin with so if they want democratic voter turnout in their world, I would suggest that people will think that we need to drain the swamp that the establishment is the same, that the republicans and the Democrats are not different at all, which means there are a lot of people, unlike the present election where you did have the influence of a progressive in the party, a lot of people do not come out to vote. So I'm not sure that the impacts of their arguments flow. About OG before moving on to points of framing though, OG's main claim in this debate is, well, attacking the movement becomes easier because you tethered the movement to like, you know, a single person. I would just note the historicity of this claim is absolute bullshit because notice it's not the problem. The problem isn't that Bernie Sanders is a bad guy. The problem is
 Bernie Sanders practices progressive politics, which is a bad idea. This is rooted in Cold War era beliefs of, you know, the politics of the Red Scare, McCarthyism, and so on and so forth. So even in their world where the comparative is some decentralized movement of progressive politics, they are similarly going to be facing the same kinds of backlash from the right wing, right wing media, and so on in their world. The question in this debate is not about backlash. The question is backlash remains constant in the status quo against progressive politics. The question is how then do we pass progressive legislation and change this course. The second note about polarization generally and this attacks both og and cg is that negotiating is much more easier in our world, polarization is much less in our world. Why? because instead of trying to bargain with a hundred different progressive politicians, all you need to do as a republican party is bargain with bernie sanders, who's heading the wing withing the senate, right. This reduces polarization, allows you the opportunity to centralize negotiation and bargain much more easily. What am i going to talk to you about in this speech, before moving on to, one, why progressive politics is important and , two, why we get that passed. I just want to point out framing one these people are locally popular within their constituencies because of the fact that they're icons but notice that they are also popular nationally. We do not know the names of all of the senators within the United States Senate but we do know the name of like you know the squad and Bernie Sanders. They are popular nationally as well. The second thing I want to note is they're also internationally popular. I just say that Bernie Sanders etc have a huge following within the developing world especially areas where progressive politics is censored and does not have the room or the space to go, which will become important in my space later on. But lastly, and this clashes directly with what CGS is trying to say, progressive politics is important for a couple of reasons. One, climate change literally fucking threatens the whole human race and its existence. We do need the Green New Deal, even if it doesn't pass by the way, because it costs too much. At the very least, what the Green New Deal allows us to do is shift the overtime window such that Biden now has the most progressive campaign and policy agenda when it comes to environmental politics. Police brutality is a huge fucking issue within the United States of America. ICE does lock up Hispanic kids and the Supreme Court, by the way, does have a majority of conservative people on the bench. So in terms of this, progressive politics is good. It protects minorities, it protects immigrants and so on, but it's also better in terms of foreign policy agendas and developing countries. Now, why do we then get progressive politics too? And over here, I'm going to explicitly point out, OG does not mechanize for jack shit and I'm going to mechanize lots of the things that they're trying to say. 
 The first thing I want to note is how better messaging happens if you tether the movement to single people, that is icons and specific. One, notice, progressive politics is extremely difficult to explain, especially within red states or states which have lower education or are swing states, etc. , where there you have lots of blue collar workers. Why? Because the language of progressive politics is extremely difficult to understand. It is very difficult to understand gender theory or racial theory or how the environment functions. What you need is people who consistently are able to communicate these ideas to people in the most simple language possible and that becomes much better on our side of the house and Bernie Sanders and AOC etc are able to do so. On the comparative in Gov world, we don't think you have the opportunity to do so anymore because these icons do not exist. The second thing I want to tell you is very specifically, we explain progressive politics much better to people because notice in their world, progressive politics is decentralized. That is to say that the meaning of what progressive politics is, is different according to the person who is forwarding those claims. So one consistency is in New York, for instance, one senator from New York
 will say very different things to what a senator in say California would say in their world. But in our world what we do is there's one head of the progressive movement or three or four heads and they can actually say well strategically guys we should focus on Medicare for all we should focus on the green new deal and this idea of centralization of the message makes it much more easier to explain to people that is why there's much more buy-in towards progressive policies on our side of the house. The third thing I want to note is messaging in media is much better off. Why? Because Fox News, CNN etc have people that they can pick and choose and say, look, this person is nationally popular. He will boost our ratings or she will boost our ratings that therefore we should have them on our program. So there is much more attention towards progressive politics on our side of the house as opposed to their decentralized world where nobody is the leader. Right. And why is this important? Because you are consistently shown on TV. So your visibility increases the faith that people have in you increases, but also you have more time to explain your message. So on and so forth. The third thing I would note is role model analysis and that this doesn't only affect these people, not only affect mobilization of voters on the ground, they also ensure that you have a constant stream of future progressive politicians also coming up because they want to be the next Bernie Sanders or the next Alexander Ocasio-Cortez. So the movement doesn't die out. The fourth thing I'll note is resources are concentrated . Notice, These people do not accept money from big corporations. They accept money from grassroots like you know grassroots support and so on. So you need to tell people give your money to Bernie Sanders because he is running the present residential campaign. So we get much more resources on our side of the house. These people are better able to campaign and fight elections. The last thing I'll note is legislative change in their world is very difficult to achieve. Why? Because you know, you need bipartisan support. You might need a majority to get progressive legislation passed. However, in our side of the house, we don't need legislation to pass. We only need single electoral victories and constituencies before Fox News, CNN, etc. Just make them into broad fucking issues. Why is this important? Because people have protest fatigue. When legislative agendas or your ability to get legislation passed fails continuously, people don't come out and support progressive movements at all. Why is this important? There are a couple of reasons for this. One, shift the overtime window. Two, we get politics through because we can actually get stuff done. Thirdly, I would note in terms of international politics, these people act as inspirations for people outside your country. Why? Because often not in developing countries where there is censorship role models are not available. You need people from outside to give you hope that this kind of politics is possible. But two, these people often push policy agendas which are beneficial for people within the developing world. Notice Bernie Sanders speech on Kashmir, giving rights to these kinds of people. So these are actually people who can shift foreign policy discourse in favor of these people. For all these reasons we are very proud to oppose.
</mo>
<gw>
 The first extension that Greg gave you is why the kinds of progressive policy that is being proposed by these icons are really bad. This beats the up bench in a couple of ways. First, oh, oh, all of their mechanisms about how you get more progressive policy with no explanation as to why they are good other than the fact that their voters are being given a choice. However, in fact, in so far as their argumentations about how America is naturally becoming more progressive it is unlikely that there will be literally no discussion of any progressive policy, right, so voters will be given a choice on both sides of the house. So almost principled benefit is being satisfied but they don't tell you why in addition to that principle benefit giving people a choice. It is good to have these kinds of progressive policies. Co's entire extention is about how this is good because you create role models for both the developing world but also in th united states right, but again it's predicated on the fact that these policies are good, because if the policies are bad the they're bad role models for people to have and it is bad for there to be more of them. Now I want to deal with this argument, right? Because the response we get is twofold. First, that this is contradictory to our opening. This is not the case. Our opening is agnostic about it, which means they're neutral about it. They don't provide a stance. We're happy to fill in that hole and provide a stance for the debate, purpose of the debate. Right. So, and also it doesn't weaken or directly contradict any of the arguments they've given you, right? If you think they've done a decent job talking about polarization, for instance, right? This doesn't counter that. But second thing that was just very glibly explained is that things like climate change is really bad. Police brutality is really bad. 
 Right. And we need these kind of policy to solve them. Again, there are many different ways to tackle climate change, right? We can do it with a moderate carbon tax where we can do so with a green new deal. What Greg explained to you is by the progressive iterations of the solutions to these problems are extremely, extremely bad. And there's no contention with that. What does Greg tell you? The first thing Greg tells you is that these icons have an independent base of support. That is because they have direct channels with a lectures with the people. Right. And I think all teams agree that they're fairly very popular to have a direct channel, communicating with people. They are one financially largely independent from the party establishment. That is, they get independent donations from people and they don't really need to depend on the party. Second is they have an independent source of legitimacy, right. That is, if you have a twitter page that's followed by millions of people the what you say actually counts, people tend to have this legitimacy about you, right. That if I'm just a random other representative, I don't get. This is really, really important because it means that if I'm , this is what greg told you to no response,, that if I'm a progressive icon because of my icon status, right. There's no need for me to appease the party whatsoever and I can go for the kinds of aspirational policies that are hugely costly and are largely inefficient, right? Because that's what carries the greatest amount of favor with my millions of followers, right? This means that one, these policies tend to be fairly bad, right? That is they create their inefficient, they're very costly, likely damages the economy structurally. And two, they're infeasible. Like the Green New Deal is 30 pages for something that's supposed to revolutionize the economy, the way that like the economy works, right? This is not something that is actually possible. It is, it's not something that's actually well thought through. So I think this is already a way for us to win the debate.
 Now let's talk about the top half. First, I think that OG has this issue where a lot of their arguments are about the existence of progressive policy. Insofar as progressive policy exists, then they can get demonized. But there are two things they tell you that isn't contingent on this. The first thing they tell you is that people become less informed on issues because instead of debating the Green New Deal, we debate about AOC's background. And the second thing they tell you that is unique is the fact of gridlock. The AOC will never back down and AOC will never cooperate with the democrats when they're in power, right. This is really important, we're going to give you better versions of both of these arguements, right. The first thing is on informing of issues, og's argument goes to the extent that they're uninformed on specific progressive issues, right. Like, I only because I'm debating about AOC's background. I'm not cognizant of AOC's policies but greg's extentions on campaigning is a reason why voters in general are uninformed about every single issue in the campaigns because there is now an incentive for every politician both on the democratic side and the republician side to be obstructionist and to be obscure about the policies that they support. Right. So this means one, the magnitude is much larger. And two, if you want to take the value neutral stance of top half, then obviously the most important impact, the big picture that people can exercise a democratic will, right, which can rely on the fact that they're actually informed and policies are campaigning based on issues. So how do we get less issue campaigning? What Greg told you is that because these icons have one independent basis of support, where they're independent of their party, two, they're hugely popular. So their endorsements and their primary challenges really matter. And three, this is conceited by closing opposition when they say that these icons create tight control over the progressive caucus, right. Which means if AOC chooses right, so thank you for supplying this mechanism to us. If AOC chooses to not endorse, we're challenging someone the primaries and all the other 1o or 11 progressive politicians who are also really popular with some young people right. They also follow hard lead. This means that if I'm biden if I'm any candidate right. If I'm democratic, I'm being asked in a debate where  if I'm trying to publicize my issues, right. I cannot raise a position, If I am too extreme, then I get skewered by the moderate side of my base. But if I voice anything that is not what these icons want, then I get skewered by that. So I just don't talk about any issues. And instead, it talked about things like general popularity, or like a general popularity, right? Politics. This is really important because it means that the Democrats can't call out the Republicans when they do the same thing. Neither party is talking about issues. This is really important because of what I've just told you about having like informed elections. So we do a better version of OG's argument. For the second, the other thing I want to talk about with OG.
<poi>
Unless you are able to prove that the people who would not vote for Biden, who are inspired by AOC, would otherwise settle for Biden, your case has no marginal change. Somewhere between moderate Republicanism and this communist dystopia you are painting, there is a meaningful policy change that we have proven. Please engage. 
</poi>
Yeah. So I don't think it's the case that all of AOC supporters are previously non-Democrats, right? That is true to an extent. You've energized some people, right? But a lot of the times you've also attracted a lot of prevvious people who were on like far left the democratic party who would have voted around anyway right . It's just patently false that AOC's entire supporter base are just people who've never voted before or people who are third party right. That's just false. The second things that they want to compare with regards to og is og talked about gridlock, right. Which is that AOC herself will not vote, we're not compromised, right, but they don't tell you why this means there's actual gridlock after all like votes are not tied by a margin of one, right, but what we've told you instead is because aoc is an independent base of support and have independent source legitimacy. It makes having her support, other progressive members of prince's caucus means they too can block those votes, that they too feel confident enough to disobey the democratic party establishment, and when you have 10, 12 representatives, right. Obstructing a democratic vote that's when you actually get the meaningful impact of obstructionism, right. A policy is not being passed. This also beats co because co's basically talking about how you get more progressive policy but progressive policy requires democrats to be one, power and two, even when they're in power be able to legislate, right. which they cannot do. If AOC and the Progressive Caucus because of ICON stat is able to block the kind of legacies of the policymaking machinery. That's really important because if you have like if Democrats are in power but they can't legislate or they can't rule, then not only do you have like lack of policy but you also don't get any of the good progressive policies the CO thinks is really good for these reasons proposed. 
</gw>
<ow>
I don't want to be that sort of person but what is progressive? In America progressive is a to wear a fucking mask. In America, it is progressive to have anything past any market mechanism to resolve climate change. In America, it is progressive for people to have healthcare recognized by the United Nations as a human right. So this Tucker Carlson-esque speech that I just saw in government with painting a communist socialist dystopia is untrue insofar as progressive politics occupies a crucial space and some would say the only rational space within American politics that's why it's important, But they miss the second nuance between progressive politics and centrist politics, which is that when Bernie Sanders says something very left wing, Biden is able to get away with saying something pretty left wing, but short of Bernie Sanders and normalize it as a centrist policy. This is literally how you get progressive agendas passed. For instance, Biden has the most progressive climate change platform in political history. And yet he's still saying a centrist uncle Joe, because there are a bunch of people who are further to his left. This is the political nuance that they missed within our case, in terms of who you interact with centrist politics. Second point of framing, what is the counter factual because if I'm deeply honest I am still unclear on what happens to bernie sanders and aoc types. Do they just vanish into the ether? What would you have rather they done otherwise? what does progressive fractions look like within congress? The only thing we got here was we don't want famous individuals. Let's take that as some sort of substitute for a counterfactuals. Three reasons why individuals are crucial. A, they humanize progressive policy because progressive policy is caught up in elite discourses. Not everyone understands how capitalistic structures influence climate change. Bernie Sanders can put his cold face on and do it for them. Secondly, and directly engaging with opening governments, only valuable responses, What if these people are fallible? What if they lose the election? What if God forbid there's a scandal which comes out? What if they die? These people become martyrs for the movement. The point of which these are people that you look up to and want to be inspired to become the next generation version of. Number three, individuals are important because you allow them to go a less and often disparate faction of progressive individuals, allowing for on opening governments concern, less polarization with the Republican Party on closing government's concern, less fracturing of the Democratic Party because they control the caucus and they control the wing. They attempted to very glibly flip this point by saying on the same note, AOC can also ask people to obstruct. I just want to point out, panel, that I know that debating is the science of logic and not the science of facts for unfortunate reasons. When has this happened? When is Bernie Sanders and AOC, he said, we are going to lose entire elections, but not support like you know, the normal person? This happened in 2016, this happened in 2020. Like every single time that you can think of, the progressives have compromised. So it's unclear to me where this dystopian version of the obstructionist progressive is coming from. But the final thing that I point out, which I think is really important, is what happens to these voters. As opening opposition says, the point at which you don't have individual leaders, do they just vanish into the ether? Opening opposition rapidly points out these people might have potential political apathy. I'm going to be a bit bolder. 
 I'm going to say that the point at which these people aren't tethered to individual ideologies, they move towards the right. Think about it. There were strangely two people in 2016 who talked about neoliberalism being a horrible thing. Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump. It's an unfortunate political coincidence within our politics that the far right and far left share an eerily similar economic platform rallied against neoliberalism. So I see that it's not just apathy, but it is zero. There's an active negative here the point of which is a drift towards the right for these disenchanted voters who see anyone who is in any way allied with this establishment as utterly evil. That's why we went on the individual clash. The third thing I want to do in this speech then is talk about why progressive politics are extremely good for Democrats and also generally. Two points here. The first point, which is really important and went completely underbudded by government web is the house point about international politics. A, Bernie Sanders isn't just inspired people in Birmingham, Alabama. He inspires people in Karachi, Pakistan, and New Delhi, India to pursue a progressive politics that is systematically censored by the states that they live in. Secondly, they platform these concerns, the point at which they talk about them in Congress, talk about them in Senate vis-a-vis the Kashmir issue and increasingly the Palestine issue. But thirdly, they contribute towards legislative accountability, re the Congress's or at least the House's passed with Senate's rejected declaration against Israel in terms of building its settlements in Palestine. These are three crucial ways in which they further an international progressive politics that is crucial for people in developing world that it meditate no response from government. Let's talk about the second strand of this, why progressive politics is good. The first thing I just want to point out here is that these people get funding from extremely small organizations. This is a good thing for us because this means according to their own agnostic, democratic norms, people have a much more pluralistic impact on their politics instead of ExxonMobil and Shell crowding out the interests of the poor and the marginalized. Before I deal with the final three reasons between progressive politics domestically. 
<poi>
The problem isn't that individuals are fallible. The problem is that supporters of Bernie Sanders literally won't support Elizabeth Warren because of their personal disagreements in places like the presidential primaries. 
</poi>
Okay, but that's literally not what happened yesterday. Like, fucking open the newspaper and they're like, I'm sorry, right? Like literally they had a fight because people argue. And then when people argue, they come to a consent. They keep literally saying they argued with each other. Yes, they did. I completely agree with you. And then they did coalesce on a common platform. That's literally what happened. This is the average reasonable voter test. I'm sure I'll be fine. Um, but then the other three reasons that I want to talk about the first reason that I think that's really important is in terms of radical politics, as I said at the top of my speech, progressive politics is extremely crucial to creating a democratic left which is different from the so-called radical left of closing government and opening government. This takes it over opening opposition because we show you a lighted runway apathway towards getting policies from the democrats past by making joe look the sensible guy. While crazy bernie goes off. Secondly, weshowed you that there's a compounding of the impacts in so insofar as the impacts aren't restricted to the contiguous borders of the united states but flow outward towards international politics, and thirdly we showed you that the only way get policies passed in an extremely polarized country is to create humanistic portrayals vis-a-vis individuals and also to allow a coalescing of the left, which prevents polarization and prevents factoring. For those reasons, I'm extremely proud to oppose.
</ow>