PurpleComet 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Purple Comet ! Math Meet
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Home
 
 
 
 
 Supervisor Login/Registration
 
 
 
 
 Team Login
 
 
 
 
 Contest Information
 
 

 
 
 
 Donations
 
 

 
 
 Acknowledgments
 
 
 
 
 Contact Us
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 Home
 
 
 
 
 Contest Information
 
 

 
 
 Contest Results
 
 
 
 
 Old Contest Answers
 
 

 
 
 Donations
 
 

 
 
 Acknowledgments
 
 
 
 
 Contact Us
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Contest Rules
 
 

 
 
 Instructions to Supervisors
 
 

 
 
 Quick Start Instructions
 
 
 
 
 FAQ
 
 

 
 
 Contest Results
 
 
 
 
 Old Contest Answers
 
 

 
 
 Changes To The 2026 Contest
 
 

 
 
 Poster & Flyer
 
 

 
 
 List of Teams
 
 

 

 
 

 Contest Rules

 Official Rules

 The Purple Comet! Math Meet is a free, annual, international, online, team, mathematics
 competition designed for middle and high school students that has been held every year since 2003. 

 How It Works

 
 The Purple Comet! Math Meet is a team competition. 
 Each team is required to have an adult supervisor. 
 Supervisors must register at the contest website by clicking on the SUPERVISOR LOGIN/REGISTRATION link. 
 Supervisors may register teams for the competition during the team registration period which begins
 February 1 and continues through the end of the competition. 
 In the competition, middle school teams are given 60 minutes to work on 20 mathematics problems, and
 high school teams are given 90 minutes to work on 30 mathematics problems. 
 The team supervisor may select any period during the 244 hour competition window for the team to
 compete. 
 Supervisors of multiple teams may have all of their teams compete at the same time, or have some teams
 compete at one time and other teams compete at other times. 
 Any time during the competition window the team supervisor may optionally download and print copies of
 the competition problems so that the printed copies can be distributed to team members when it is time
 for them to begin the competition. 
 The team supervisor starts the team's competition by logging onto the contest website and starting the
 team clock. 
 The team logs into the contest website and sees a list of competition problems on the screen. 
 The team submits answers to the competition problems during the 60 minutes (middle school) or 90 minutes
 (high school) of the competition. 
 A few days after the competition ends, the competition results are posted on the contest website.
 Supervisors may then download participation certificates and award certificates from the contest
 website. 
 
 Rules For Supervisors

 
 Any adult aged 21 years or older may serve as a team supervisor. 
 Each supervisor must register as a supervisor at the contest website by clicking on the SUPERVISOR LOGIN/REGISTRATION
 link. 
 Once registered, there is no need to register again; the contest website retains supervisor
 registrations from year to year. 
 One supervisor may supervise as many teams as they like. For example, a teacher at a school could
 supervise many teams from that school. 
 A school may have more than one person working as a team supervisor, although it is recommended that
 these supervisors coordinate their activities to ensure that no student participates on two different
 middle school teams or two different high school teams. 
 Supervisors are often teachers at a school, but this is not required. Parents, relatives, family
 friends, or mathematics club advisors also work fine as supervisors. 
 Supervisors are responsible for ensuring that contest participants are following the rules of the
 competition. This includes reviewing the competition rules with the team members before the start of the
 competition. 
 
 Rules For Team Formation

 
 The Purple Comet! Math Meet is a team competition. Students on the same team are encouraged to work
 together to solve contest problems. 
 The contest is designed for teams of students from anywhere in the world enrolled in middle school or high school (or local equivalent), or home-schooled students who are at a comparable level. Non-competitive teams are open to any participants regardless of grade or age, including adults. 
 A team may have as few as one student and as many as six students. 
 Teams may enter in one of eight categories: 
 
 Middle School Level for small school teams 
 Middle School Level for large school teams 
 Middle School Level for mixed school teams 
 Middle School Level for non-competitive teams 
 High School Level for small school teams 
 High School Level for large school teams 
 High School Level for mixed school teams 
 High School Level for non-competitive teams 
 
 
 Small school teams, large school teams, and mixed school teams are competitive, and team members must
 meet age, grade, and school size criteria. The contest results for the top teams in these categories are
 posted on the contest website,
 and special award certificates are provided to members of winning teams with other teams receiving
 participation certificates. Membership on non-competitive teams is not restricted in any way. Contest
 results for these teams are not posted,
 and team members receive participation certificates. The non-competitive categories are designed for
 teams that wish to participate in the Purple Comet! Math Meet but do not want their results compared to
 other teams. 
 All competitive middle school team members must be students who have not yet completed the eighth grade
 (or local equivalent), and who are under the age of 16 as of the date of the competition. 
 All competitive high school team members must be students who have not yet graduated from secondary
 school (or local equivalent), and who are under the age of 20 as of the date of the competition. 
 Competitive teams may register in the large school category, the small school category, or the mixed
 team category. All students from a large school team or a small school team must be enrolled as students in the same school. The school size should be determined from the size of the student population from which potential team members have been drawn. Some schools are spread out over a campus comprising several buildings. If a team could be comprised of students from across the entire campus, then the entire campus should be considered when calculating the school size. Mixed teams are designed for home schooled students, students who all attend the same regional mathematics club, or some other non-school organization.
 
 High schools qualify as small if they have no more than 1200 students. Middle schools qualify as small
 if they have no more than 400 students. 
 No student may participate on more than one middle school team or one high school team, although a
 student eligible for the middle school level may compete both on one middle school team and on one high
 school team. 
 A school may enter as many teams as they like. Each team is required to have access to its own computer
 with an Internet connection. If two teams at the same school need to share a computer, then the two
 teams are required to compete at different times with one team completing the entire competition before
 the other team starts. 
 Team members need not all be from the same school. Mixed school teams are designed for teams made up of
 students who do not attend the same school such as home schooled students, members of an area
 mathematics club, or groups of friends. 
 Each team must have an adult supervisor (age 21 year or older) who is able to monitor the team to ensure
 that competition rules are being followed. An adult supervisor may supervise more than one team. 
 Teams may enter either as a middle school team or a high school team. The competition problems for
 middle school teams will be fewer in number and of a lower degree of difficulty than those for high
 school teams. 
 
 Rules For The Competition

 
 Each team is given a team name at the time that the team supervisor registers the team. Team names may be edited by the contest judges if deemed inappropriate or if there are two teams with the same name. Because team names are subject to approval, team names do not appear on the List of Teams for a period of time after the team is registered. Teams may begin the competition before their team name are approved. 
 
 The contest is conducted via Internet web form. Teams may fill in answers to the contest problems during
 the prescribed time for their team (60 minutes for middle school teams, 90 minutes for high school
 teams) following the start of their
 contest clock. At any time during the competition, contestants can click the SUBMIT button to submit
 their team's entry. Answers may be submitted multiple times by the same team, but for each problem only
 the last answer received before the contest
 ends will be accepted and graded. Partial submissions are accumulated. Consequently, if a team submits
 an answer to problem 1 and later wises to submit an answer to problem 2, there is no need to resubmit
 the answer to problem 1. 
 Contestants are allowed to work on the contest problems as a team. No help may be provided by persons
 not on their team. 
 Team members and team supervisors must not reveal or discuss contest problems with anyone other than
 their immediate team members until the contest officially ends. 
 Team members and team supervisors must never post contest problems where they would be available to
 others before the contest officially ends. In particular, it is against the contest rules for anyone to
 submit contest problems to a website
 whether or not the website encourages students to submit challenging mathematics problems. Note that all contest problems are copyrighted. 
 Although the problems in the Purple Comet! Math Meet are designed so that they can be worked without the use of calculators, students are welcome to use calculators or computers to help them perform computations. Students may write computer programs or use computer tools for the purpose of making calculations or drawing diagrams. These tools can include programs available on the students’ computers as well as calculating tools available online such as spreadsheet programs, WolframAlpha, Mathematica, Maple, Desmos, Derive, or GeoGebra 
 Students may use books and other reference materials such as class notes as long as the materials are available to them at the location where they are participating in the competition. Students may not use the Internet to find needed definitions or instructional materials that tell them about how to solve problems.
 
 Team members may also refer to books, computer programs, or other reference materials available to them locally as long as the students seek this material without aid from persons not on their team.
 
 Students must use their own knowledge and reference materials to find methods to solve contest problems and can only use calculators and computer tools to make calculations. In particular, students may not query an Internet browser about how to solve a particular problem or find an explanation of a solution method. Nor may students use generative artificial intelligence tools (AI) including but not limited to ChatGPT, Gemini, Copilot, or Claude to produce, explain, or verify answers, interpret problems, or generate computer code, text, or mathematical reasoning. That is, students must decide how to solve the problems, but they can use computer tools to aid their calculations. The Purple Comet! Math Meet does not allow any tools that inform students about the methods they should use to solve problems or allow students to solve problems without knowing the methods needed. For example, if the students know a method to solve a problem, they may use tools to do calculations, plot functions, or investigate the behavior of sequences to gain insight about a problem, but they may not use tools that explain how to solve the problem. 
 
 Students on the same team are not required to be in the same geographic location when their team competes. The students are welcome to communicate with each other using telephone, Internet, or other communication methods. Students from different locations may all log into their team account and submit answers. Each time students click on the SUBMIT button, they will see all the answers submitted by their team up to that time. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring that the rules of the competition are being followed, even if the students on their teams are competing from different locations. Teams do need to register as being from a particular country and, within the United States, from a particular state or territory. Teams with members from different locations still need to choose a home location.
 
 Participants may not use computers or any other communication devices to seek help with problem
 solutions from people or Internet resources outside of their own team members. 
 The decision of the competition judges is final. 
 The official time is the time as determined by the purplecomet.org server. 
 
 Other Rules

 
 Any circumstances not covered by these rules may be decided at the discretion of the competition
 designers. 
 These rules may be amended from time to time without notice. The rules in effect at the start of the
 competition are the official rules of the competition. 
 The contest is free to all participants, although your gifts to help cover the expenses of running the
 event are encouraged. Learn how you can help. 
 
 Designers/Judges

 
 Dr. Jonathan Kane, Contest Coordinator and Primary Competition Designer 

 Professor of Mathematical and Computer Sciences, UW-Whitewater / Retired

 Dr. Titu Andreescu, Competition Designer 

 Former Head Coach of the US Math Olympiad Team and Director of the MAA American Mathematics Competitions, and Associate Professor of Science/Mathematics Education, UT-Dallas

 Dr. Sobitha Samaranayake, Technical Support and Website Design 

 Professor of Computer Science, UW-Whitewater 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 All content copyright &copy; 2003-2026 by Jonathan
 Kane, Titu Andreescu,
 Bennette Harris, and Sobitha Samaranayake.

 For problems or questions regarding this website contact
 [webmaster@purplecomet.org] .

 Last updated: January 24, 2026.