PurpleComet 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Purple Comet ! Math Meet
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Home
 
 
 
 
 Supervisor Login/Registration
 
 
 
 
 Team Login
 
 
 
 
 Contest Information
 
 

 
 
 
 Donations
 
 

 
 
 Acknowledgments
 
 
 
 
 Contact Us
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 Home
 
 
 
 
 Contest Information
 
 

 
 
 Contest Results
 
 
 
 
 Old Contest Answers
 
 

 
 
 Donations
 
 

 
 
 Acknowledgments
 
 
 
 
 Contact Us
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Contest Rules
 
 

 
 
 Instructions to Supervisors
 
 

 
 
 Quick Start Instructions
 
 
 
 
 FAQ
 
 

 
 
 Contest Results
 
 
 
 
 Old Contest Answers
 
 

 
 
 Changes To The 2026 Contest
 
 

 
 
 Poster & Flyer
 
 

 
 
 List of Teams
 
 

 

 
 
 Purple Comet! Math Meet Frequently Asked Questions

 What Is The Purple Comet! Math Meet?

 The Purple Comet! Math Meet is a free, on-line, international, team,
 mathematics competition designed for middle and high school students conducted annually since 2003.
 

 Where Does The Purple Comer! Math Meet Come From?

 The Purple Comet! Math Meet is a collaboration between Dr. Jonathan Kane and Dr. Titu Andreescu
 who together design
 the contest and write the contest problems. Dr. Bennette Harris wrote the original software that runs the
 contest website.
 Dr. Sobitha Samaranayake currently provides the web support for the Purple Comet! website.
 For many years the contest was housed at the University of Wisconsin - Whitewater where
 each of the collaborators worked. The contest is now run by AwesomeMath .
 

 Who May Participate?

 
 There are competitive teams and non-competitive teams. Any person may participate on a non-competitive team.
 Any student anywhere who has not completed high school and has not reached the age of 20 years old at the
 time of the
 competition may compete on a competitive team. Each team is required to have an adult supervisor.
 

 What Is The Difference Between A Competitive Team Aand A Non-competitive Team?

 
 Students on a competitive team must qualify by satisfying age, grade, and school criteria. Competitive teams
 are eligible for award certificates, and winning teams have their team names and results posted on the
 contest website. Non-competitive teams have no age, grade, or school restrictions. Members of
 non-competitive teams only receive certificates of participation, and their team results are never posted on
 the contest website.
 

 Why Does A Team Need An Adult Supervisor?

 
 We require a list of the names of students competing on each team so that we can assure that no student
 competes on more than one team, and so that we can produce award certificates and certificates of
 participation for all students. We never post students' names on our website, nor do we share this
 information with anyone.
 

 Why Do You Collect Student' Names?

 After the end of the ten-day contest period, supervisors are given the scores of each of their participating
 teams. A few days later, a full contest results report is published and supervisors are provided with either
 certificates of participation
 or certificates of merit for each student participating in the contest. There are no other awards.
 

 Can A Student Compete Even If No Teacher At The Student&#039;s Sshool Is Intersted In Being
 A Team Supervisor?

 
 Yes, the adult supervisor for a team does not need to be a teacher. For example, parents of interested
 students have often served as team supervisors.
 

 How Many Teams May Enter From One School?

 
 There is no limit to the number of teams from a single school.
 

 May More Than One Teacher From A Single School Supervise Teams From That School?

 
 Yes, often one teacher will supervise teams made up of their students while other teachers supervise other
 teams in the school.
 

 How Many Students Can Compete On One Team?

 A team may have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 students.

 Can Team Members Work Together To Solve Contest Problems?

 Yes, this is encouraged. In fact, many contest problems are specifically designed to be solved
 as a collaboration between students. During the contest, teams can choose to divide up the work by assigning some
 problems to each team member or they can choose to work on problems in a collaborative manner. Successful teams combine both of these strategies.

 How Can A Supervisor Start The Contest Clock For Some But Not All Of Their Teams?
 

 When a supervisor logs in, they should display their MANAGE CONTEST page. On this page, select a contest for
 each team whose clock you wish to start. Then click the START CONTEST button for each of those teams. Only the
 clocks for the teams for which you selected a contest will start.

 What Is The Difference Between The Middle School And The High School Levels?

 The middle school contest consists of 20 mathematics problems to be completed in 60 minutes. The
 high school contest consists of 30 mathematics problems to be completed in 90 minutes. The problems for the middle
 school contest cover topics in arithmetic, elementary algebra, elementary geometry, simple counting and
 probability, and facts about prime factorizations and divisibility of numbers. The problems for the high school contest
 cover a wider range of topics including advanced algebra, geometry, combinatorics, probability, trigonometry,
 conic sections, functions, and so forth. No problems from either contest require techniques from calculus.

 Why Are There Four Categories For Teams?

 After the competition, the contest website will display a list of winning teams. The list
 distinguishes teams from large schools, teams from small schools, and teams comprised of students who do not all attend the same
 school.

 Can A Single Student Compete As An Individual?

 Yes, a team may compete with as few as one student on the team, although students who compete on
 a team by themselves miss out on the collaborative nature of the contest. Because the contest is designed for teams of
 up to six students, students from small teams should not expect to complete many of the contest problems in the
 allotted time.

 Do All The Members Of A Team Need To Attend The Same School?

 No, there is a category of mixed teams which is for teams comprised of students who do not all
 attend the same
 school. This category is designed for homeschooled students as well as for students who belong to a regional
 mathematics club (math circle).

 If Our School Has Students Through The Ninth Grade, May The Ninth Graders Compete On A
 Middle School Team?

 No, any team with a student beyond grade eight must compete as a high school team.

 May Middle School Students Compete On The High School Contest?

 Yes, a student who qualifies as a middle school student may compete on the high school contest.
 

 May A Student Compete Both As A Middle School Student And A High School Student?

 Yes, a team of middle school students may register twice, once competing as a middle school team
 and once
 competing as a high school team. Alternatively, a middle school student can be a member of one middle school
 team and a different high school team.

 Can Students Use Calculators Or Computers To Help Solve The Contest Problems?

 Yes, even though all contest problems are designed so that they can be worked without the aid of
 a calculator or
 computer, students are allowed to use these devices to help them solve problems. Students may not search the
 Internet to find information to help them solve contest problems. They may not use artificial intelligence
 tools
 (AI) to solve problems because these tools do not force students to find their own methods to solve
 problems.

 Can Students Consult Books Or Notes During The Contest?

 Yes, students may read any books or notes available to them locally. Students may not use the
 Internet to access
 information not stored at their contest site.

 Can Students Ask The Adult Supervisor For Help During The Contest?

 No, supervisors may not help students with any aspect of solving contest problems. Team members
 cannot receive
 help with any mathematics, with any definitions, or with any translation of words during the contest from
 any
 person not on their own team.

 Can Students Search The Internet During The Contest To Find Information That Can Help
 Them Solve Contest Problems?

 No, this is specifically prohibited. Students may use reference materials at their contest site,
 but they may
 not access the Internet to get help.

 Can The Adult Supervisor Enter Answers For Students?

 No, students must enter their own answers. Exceptions to this rule might be granted by contest
 judges in cases
 where students on a team have disabilities making it difficult for them to enter contest answers. For
 example,
 exceptions might be granted to a team of blind students.

 Do All Students On A Team Need To Be In The Same Location During The Contest?

 No, as long as all team members are being supervised to ensure that all contest rules are being
 followed,
 students from the same team can compete from different locations. More than one student from a team may log
 into
 the contest website and submit solutions to contest problems. Solutions submitted by team members at one
 site
 will be visible to team members at a second site.

 What Happens If The Competition End Time Is Reached Before A Team Has Completed The
 Competition?
 All teams whose clocks have started before the end of the competition will be allowed to
 complete the
 competition even if their allotted time runs beyond the end of the competition end time.
 

 When Does A Team Find Out How Well They Have Done On The Contest?

 Solutions to contest problems will be posted shortly after the end of the contest. A list of
 winning teams will
 be posted several days after the completion of the contest. Team supervisors get a complete report of the
 results of their teams scored, and they receive downloadable certificates for each team member.

 Will Winning Teams Get Prizes?

 Prizes? Why do we need prizes? Actually, since it is impossible to monitor whether contest rules
 are uniformly
 followed at each contest site, the distribution of prizes with high economic value would provide the wrong
 incentives to teams. The contest staff intends to make available to team supervisors certificates suitable
 for
 printing. These certificates will indicate each team's achievement. Occasionally, the contest receives
 donations
 of nominal prizes which will be mailed to winning teams.

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 All content copyright &copy; 2003-2026 by Jonathan
 Kane, Titu Andreescu,
 Bennette Harris, and Sobitha Samaranayake.

 For problems or questions regarding this website contact
 [webmaster@purplecomet.org] .

 Last updated: January 24, 2026.