 
  1  
 
IJSO Statutes  
  
  
  
  
  
2004.12.5 in Indonesia  
1st Amendment 2007.12.2 in Taipei  
2nd Amendment 2009.12.8 in Azerbaijan  
3rd Amendment 2013.12.9 in India 
    4th Amendment 2016.12.9 in Bali     
                 5th Amendment 2018.12.9 in 
Botswana 
  6th Amendment 2019.12.10 in Doha. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  2  
 Contents  Page  
  
INTRODUCTION   
§ 1 (Definition)  3 
§ 2 (Preamble)  4  
§ 3 (Aims & Objectives)  4 
ADMINISTRATION OF THE IJSO   
§ 4 (Organisation)  4 
§ 4.1 (The President)  5 
§ 4.2 (Vice Presidents)  6  
§ 4.3 (Administration Centre)  6  
§ 4.4 (Executive Committee)  6 
§ 4.5 (Organising Committee)  7 
§ 4.6 (Scientific Committee)  7 
§ 4.7 (International Board)  8 
PARTICIPATION IN THE IJSO   
§ 5 (Member Countries)  9 
§ 5.1 (Obligations)  9 
§ 5.2 (Competitors)  9 
§ 5.3 (Country Coordinator)  10 
§ 5.4 (Team Leaders)  10  
§ 5.5 (Observers)  11 
§ 5.6 (Visitors)  11 
§ 5.7 (Guest Delegations)  11 
HOSTING THE IJSO   
§ 6.1 (Duties of the Host Country)  12 
§ 6.2 (Duties of the following Host Countries)  13 
 
  3  
FINANCIAL MATTERS   
  
 § 7 (Financial Matters)  13  
  
  
THE COMPETITION   
§ 8 (Schedule)  14  
§ 8.1 (Problems)  14 
§ 8.2 (Problem Discussion)  15 
§ 8.3 (Problem Translations)  15 
§ 8.4 (Marking)  15 
§ 8.5 (Moderation)  16 
§ 8.6 (Calculating the Awards)  16 
§ 8.7 (Awards)  18 
HONORARY MEMBERS   
§ 9 (Honorary Members)  19 
FINALLY   
§ 10 (Finally)  19 
GUIDELINES   
  
 § Guidelines for the IJSO Host Country  20  
 § Guidelines for Administration Centre  tb 
INTRODUCTION    
  
§ 1  
(Definition)  
  
The International Junior Science Olympiad (IJSO) is an annual individual and team 
competition in the Natural Sciences for students who are fifteen years old or younger on 
31st December of the competition year. IJSO has been established in recognition of the 
 
  4  
significance of the Natural Sciences in the general education of young people and in all 
aspects of their lives. It is a purely educational event.  
§ 2  
(Preamble)  
  
No country may have its delegation excluded from participation on political grounds, lack 
of diplomatic relations, lack of recognition by the government of the Organising country, 
imposed embargoes, or similar reasons. When difficulties preclude the formal invitation 
of the delegation representing a member country, students from such a country should 
be invited to participate as individual delegations. Religious or political propaganda 
against any person or country or disruption of any aspect of the IJSO is strictly forbidden. 
Participation in the IJSO either by a host country, a delegation, or an observer signifies 
acceptance of the statutes and all other aspects of the IJSO.  
§ 3  
(Aims & Objectives)  
  
The aims of the IJSO are  
 To promote and reward the pursuit of excellence in scientific endeavour.  
 To challenge, stimulate and encourage gifted students to further develop their 
talents in Natural Sciences.  
 To create friendship and relationships among students around the world from 
an early age.  The objectives of the IJSO are  
 To stimulate the active interest of students in the Natural Sciences.  
 To promote their careers as scientists.  
 To enhance and develop international contacts in the Natural Sciences.  
 To promote future scientific collaboration.  
 To encourage the formation of friendships within the scientific community.  
 To offer the opportunity to compare the syllabi and educational trends in 
science education within the participating countries.  
  
ADMINISTRATION OF THE IJSO  
  § 4.  
(Organization)  
  
The IJSO is organised in late November or early December by the National Organising 
Committee (OC) of one of the member countries on behalf of its National Government, 
it’s Ministries, or its official Institution(s). The competition has to be conducted on the 
territory of this nation. The duration of the Olympiad (including the arrival and departure 
days) should not be less than 9 days.  
 
  5  
English is the working language of the IJSO and competition problems and their solutions 
should be presented to the IJSO International Board (IB) and team leaders in English. The 
organisers may also prepare these documents in other languages.  
Within five years of its entry into the competition a member country should declare its 
intention to be the host of a future IJSO so that the order of countries willing to arrange 
the IJSO can be compiled. A country that refuses to commit to organise the competition 
may be barred from further participation.  
In the event of the IJSO being cancelled, all member countries including those countries 
that had agreed to send an observer will be invited to send full delegations to the 
following IJSO.  
The International Board of the IJSO is comprised of the Executive Committee and the 
Country Coordinators of each member country. 
The Executive Committee comprises: 
 President 
 Vice Presidents of Africa, Americas, Asia and Europe. 
 Treasurer 
 Secretary 
 Head of the Administration Centre. 
The Local Organising Committee and the Scientific Committee of any particular 
competition should have no overlap or common members with the host Country 
Coordinator.  
  
§ 4.1  
(The President)  
  
The President shall be elected by the IB and shall serve a three-year term. He/ She may 
be re-elected by the IB for only one additional term.  
He/ She shall be an ex-officio member of all IJSO committees and shall receive an official 
invitation from the host country of the IJSO. All costs incurred for inviting the president 
are the obligation of the Organising Committee (OC).  He/ She shall be invited to deliver a 
speech at the opening and closing ceremonies.  
The President shall ensure that the IJSO constitution is upheld and shall chair the IB 
meeting where changes to the constitution are being discussed (§ 4.7).  
His/ Her duty is also to chair the IB meeting where medal allocations are determined.  
The signature of the President should be on all certificates.  
In the case that the IJSO is not taking place or in danger of not taking place in any year, 
the IJSO President has the authority to invite the IB of the previous year to remain in 
office and manage the affairs of the IJSO until a new host country is accepted.  
The president has to be supported by the IJSO office at his/her local secretary bureau, 
expenses for which must be covered by the participating countries (§ 7).  
 
  6  
4.2 
 (Vice Presidents)  
  
Vice Presidents shall be ex-officio members of all IJSO committees and shall act with 
responsibility to the continent, which they are representing. They shall be elected by the 
IB of the relevant continent. They shall help the president with his/her tasks. They shall 
serve a three-year term and may be re-elected by the IB for only one additional term. 
The VPs shall promote and encourage countries in his/her region to participate in IJSO.  
  
§ 4.3  
(Administration Centre)  
  
The IJSO Administration Centre acts as the administrative machinery of the IJSO. For 
sustainable development of IJSO, the Centre is a permanent institution with no term 
limits. The Ministry of Education of the country where the Centre is located can staff the 
IJSO Administration Centre. The obligation and responsibility of Administration Centre 
(AC) are as the following.   
 AC shall ensure information services for all member countries and for the 
related international institutions.  
 AC shall summon the IJSO Executive Committee meeting and the International 
Board if necessary. In the meantime, it shall ensure the preparation and distribution of 
materials to these meetings.  
 AC shall accumulate relevant documentation about the competition. It shall 
register and renew addresses of coordinators, their deputies, observers, and of 
institutions taking part in the IJSO.   
 AC shall collect materials and information regarding the IJSO and other 
scientific competitions, including descriptions of competitions used to select IJSO 
contestants.   
 AC can coordinate the invitation of observers from other non-IJSO member 
countries by the future host country.  
 AC shall organise the agendas and minutes for the annual EC meeting and 
presents a yearly report, which also includes its activities and the financial situation at 
the International Board.  
4.4 
(Executive Committee) 
  
The long-term work of the IJSO is coordinated by the Executive Committee  
(EC). It consists of the President, Vice Presidents, Secretary, Treasurer and the Head of 
Administration Centre. Except for the Head of AC, the IB elects the EC for a period of three 
years and may be re-elected for one additional term only. Head of AC shall be appointed 
by the concerned country and approved by IB. Vacancies occurring within the three-year 
period will be filled by the IB through election to complete the term. The members serve 
 
  7  
in a voluntary capacity and will not receive a stipend. Member/s of EC that is not serving 
as one of the team leader or observer of his/her country will not be charged the 
registration fee and may apply for support from the hosting country for example the 
transportation costs.  
Members of the Executive Committee (EC) can also act as the Country Coordinators for 
their countries.  
  
         4.5 
(Organising Committee) 
  
The Organising Committee (OC) of the IJSO must be completely independent and separate 
from the local Country Coordinator responsible for the selection and training, etc., of the 
Host Country Team.   
The appropriate Governmental Department or Institution(s) of the host country on whose 
territory the competition takes place appoints the OC to run the IJSO on behalf of the host 
country.  
The OC should produce a "Programme Book" based on the IJSO statutes and guidelines. 
Leaders and students of the participating countries would have these books in check-in 
time. Program Book shall give all necessary details about the IJSO event.  
The OC shall provide a detailed program for the competition including the schedule, 
program of excursions, etc., which is sent to the delegation leaders of the IJSO.  
The OC shall load onto the IJSO website a summary of the event proceedings including a 
table of marks within one month of the final day of the relevant competition.  
  
§ 4.6  
(Scientific Committee)  
  
The OC appoints a Scientific Committee (SC) to manage all the scientific aspects of the 
IJSO. The SC will provide questions arranged in three examination papers with their 
corresponding solutions and mark schemes. The topics for the competition must 
correspond to the latest approved IJSO syllabus. The objective of the tasks should be to 
assess the ability of students to apply their knowledge in new and difficult contexts rather 
than to assess the wide range of knowledge they have acquired by fifteen years old.  
The Scientific Committee shall post copies of the question papers, answers sheets, and 
mark schemes on the IJSO website. The Executive Committee should ensure that this is 
completed in a timely manner.  
The SC is responsible for grading the problem solutions and for organizing and carrying 
out the moderation process.  
4.7 
(International Board) 
  
 
  8  
The International Board (IB) is composed of the Executive Committee and the Country 
Coordinators of the member countries participating in the IJSO competition of that year, 
and is the decision making body and final arbitrator of the IJSO. Decisions of the IB are 
taken on the basis of a simple majority (unless otherwise stated in the statutes) in the 
presence of at least 75% of members attending IJSO event that year and are final. Each IB 
member has one vote. In the case of equal votes, the president has a casting vote and 
takes the final decision. The President is the head of the IB meeting. His duties include:  
 To declare the meeting open and verify by roll call the names of voting 
members present.  
 To allow equal opportunities to all members to express their points of view.  
 To restrict/limit where necessary the contributions of certain members.  
 To record the decisions of the IB.  
 To complete the agenda of the meeting within the prescribed time.  
 To declare the meeting over or deferred.  
  
One of the team leaders will serve as a Country Coordinator (CC) until the next IJSO and as 
a member of the International Board (IB) of IJSO. CCs should belong to an official 
Institution, University, or well-known associations, and participate in IJSO on behalf of 
country.  
The duties of the IB are  
  
 To direct and supervise the IJSO in accordance with the statutes.  
 To verify that all members meet all the requirements of the IJSO.  
 To discuss and approve the tasks, their solutions and evaluation.  
The IB may change or reject parts of tasks one and two but may not propose new ones. 
Structural changes may not be made to the experimental task.  
 to  ensure  that  no  assistance  is  given  to  students  by  way  of translations or 
by any other means.  
 To ensure the correct and just classification of the prize winners.  
 To establish the winners of the competition and make a decision concerning 
the presentation of the prizes.  
 To review the running of the IJSO.  
 to ensure that violations of the statutes are dealt with appropriately  
 To approve the countries that will organise future IJSOs.  
 To expel countries or individuals from participation in the IJSO for violation of 
the statutes.  
 To accept the decisions of the majority of the members present.  
 
  9  
  
The IB approves  
  
 the final results of the evaluation and decides on the number of Gold,  
Silver and Bronze medals and other awards to be awarded in accordance with the 
Statutes. 
 The changes to IJSO statutes come into effect from January 1 the following year 
OR the effective date mentioned for that specific amendment and accepted by the IB.  
 The expulsion of team leaders or member countries from the IJSO in the case 
of a serious breach of the rules.  
  
PARTICIPATION IN THE IJSO  
   
§ 5  
(Member Countries)  
  
Participation in the International Junior Science Olympiad signifies acceptance of the 
present Statutes by the Relevant Ministry of the participating country.  
 A member country is the country that has participated at least once in last 3 prior years 
as an observer (with or without a guest team), or a team with students. A country is a 
member once they bring a student team after being an Observer in previous year. 
One team leader acts as the Country Coordinator (CC).  
 
The hosting country has the right to have two national delegations.  
Countries who want to join the IJSO should apply to the President to do so. Countries 
wishing to join the IJSO after it has reached the number of fifty member countries have 
to start by sending an observer at least once at the IJSO before they participate for the 
first time.  
 
§ 5.1  
(Obligations)  
  
The obligations of the member countries are to pay the participation fee at the time that 
the host country decides and to obey all rules of the IJSO statutes and rules made by the 
Host Country for the ongoing event.  
§ 5.2  
(Competitors)  
  
A normal team consists of six students and three leaders. If a normal team could not be 
fulfilled, then the minimum team that consists of three students and at least one leader 
will also be allowed to participate in the IJSO. Teams consisting of less than three 
students are not classified for team awards.  
 
  10  
The age of the competitors is fifteen years old or younger on 31st December of the 
competition year. As an example students born on or after January 1st 2000 are 
therefore eligible for IJSO in 2015.  
A student is eligible to represent his/her country if he/she holds a valid passport of that 
country or has been at school in that country for at least one academic year immediately 
prior to the competition, and has not participated in the selection process for another 
country’s team. Students at the time of the competition should not be part of University 
education. 
Students must accept the statutes of the IJSO and the organisation rules provided by the 
OC.  
The uses of one’s own collections of formulae from mathematics, chemistry, physics, etc. 
during the competition are not allowed.  
  
§ 5.3  
(Country Coordinator)  
  
The Country Coordinator is the contact person in each IJSO member country and must 
insure that  
 All registration forms are completed and sent to the Organising Committee 
(OC) on time.  
 Guarantee that all delegation member details are in accordance with the rules 
of the IJSO.  
 Pay all fees to the OC on time.  
 Confirm at registration that all delegation member details provided are correct.  
 Carry out the directions of the IB.  
  
§ 5.4  
(Team Leaders)  
  
The Team Leaders must  
 Preserve complete secrecy of the tasks and the results until publicly 
announced.  
 Provide a proper translation of the problems from English (or other languages) 
to the mother tongue of their participants. The Organisation Committee (OC) will not be 
responsible for providing the translator for the country delegation.  
 Grade their students' scripts and participate fully in the moderation process.  
 Accept the statutes of the IJSO and the Organisation Rules provided by the OC.  
 Not have contact with their students once the problem discussion has started, 
and until permission has been granted by the IB.  
 
  11  
  
The IB will disqualify those contestants who do not meet these IJSO conditions. The 
Team Leaders must ensure that all delegation member details  are  in  accordance  with  
the  rules  of  the  IJSO  and  have  been accepted by the OC prior to arrival at the IJSO.  
The  Team  Leaders  must  cover  the  costs  incurred  by  a  disqualified contestant or 
contestants where the OC has not accepted the contestant or contestants.  
   
§ 5.5  
(Observers)  
  
Observer/s are those people who come to observe the IJSO. They include a 
representative of a country wishing to join the IJSO and representatives of future host 
countries and an assistant to the Country Coordinator.  
An Observer:  
 Is regarded in the same way as a team leader.  
 Is invited to observe all IB meetings and IJSO activities.  
 Does not have voting rights at the IB and team leaders meeting.  
 Must pay an observer fee determined by the host country.  
The Host country must finalise the Observer and Visitor fees after consultation with the 
Executive Committee. 
  
§ 5.6  
(Visitors)  
  
A Visitor from a participating country, e.g. the parent of the students, may attend the 
IJSO. A Visitor: 
 Is invited to join for all excursion programs for leaders only.  
 Is invited to attend the opening and closing ceremonies.  
 Is not allowed to attend any meetings pertaining to IJSO.  
 Must pay his/her accommodations (hotel, foods, travelling, etc.) fully during 
his/her stay.  
 Must pay the visitor fee determined by the host country.  
  
§ 5.7  
(Guest Delegations)  
  
Under the approval of the EC of IJSO the host country may invite Guest Delegations, but 
only one Guest Delegation from each member country, including a Guest Delegation 
 
  12  
from the host country. Guest Delegation leaders are not voting members of the IB but 
their duties are the same as other delegation leaders in all other respects. The Guest 
Delegation pays all the expenses related to its participation determined by the host 
country. The Team Leaders of a Guest Delegation shall be considered as Observers 
with the consequent rights and fees as shown in Statute 5.5. A Guest Delegation may 
comprise the same members as a National Delegation, in other words a maximum of 
three Team Leaders and six competing students 
Countries present with Guest Delegations only are not obliged to organise the IJSO in the 
future.  
Competitors from the Guest Delegations are classified in the same way as the regular 
delegations. They may receive medals, awards, diplomas and prizes but their names 
should be associated with the letter "G" (Guest) in all official documents. Also, the Guest 
Delegation will not be awarded as the country winner, Best experiment, Best Theoretical 
winner or overall Winner. The medals, awards, diplomas and prizes awarded to the guest 
teams are in addition to the 60% allocated awards.  
  
HOSTING THE IJSO  
§ 6.1  
(Duties of the Host Country)  
  
The host country must ensure or prove that  
 The event is conducted in accordance with the statutes.  
 A Logo of the IJSO is used in all banners, documents, certificates etc.  
 Each member country and EC member receive an official invitation letter 
(including announcement about financial contributions of participants and observers) 
and relevant information.  
 Students and leaders should not stay at the same hotel.  
 The final report will be published and delivered to the participant countries and 
AC before the end of the next IJSO.  
 There may not be any contacts between leaders/observers/visitors and their 
team members at the beginning of, during, and after problems discussion until the 
students have finished the examination for the discussed problems.  
 Secrecy and confidentiality during the competition will be supervised.  
 The health and safety of the delegations is provided.  
 Laboratories, examination halls, materials, and other requirements necessary 
for the carrying out of the IJSO in accordance with the rules are provided.  
 Participating countries will obtain visas and their embassies/trade offices 
abroad are informed.  
 
  13  
 Competition tasks, author’s solution, and marking of the individual results for 
the team leaders are prepared.  
 The translators and interpreters are assisted during all IJSO sessions.  
 Organising committee and the scientific committee will cooperate with EC 
members.  If the Organising Committee or the Scientific Committee plans to change the 
competition procedures from those outlined in these Statutes and accompanying 
Guidelines they must seek agreement upon this change with the EC in advance of, or 
during the EC visit to the Host Country. 
  
§ 6.2  
(Duties of the following Host Countries)  
  
The next Host Country must provide a formal invitation to all participating countries. The 
formal invitation must be addressed by the chairman of the Organising Committee or 
from The Government Official of the next hosting country. It may bring observers to 
watch the ongoing IJSO.  
Must invite the EC Members of IJSO to observe the preparation of OC at least 6 months 
before the date of the IJSO event. All costs for inviting the EC members must be borne by 
the OC of the next host country.  
The subsequent hosting country must send a preliminary invitation to all participating 
countries and may make any other presentations, etc., to all of the participating 
countries.  
FINANCIAL MATTERS  
  
§ 7 (Financial Matters)  
  
The financial management of the IJSO is as follows:  
The host country covers all costs from the arrival at the location of the IJO until the 
departure of the delegations. This includes the costs of   
 board and lodging of the delegations   
 excursions   
 Medals, awards, certificates, other prizes, etc.  
 
The Country Coordinators of the participating countries must ensure that the 
government/sponsor covers the cost for the delegation of   
 return travel to the location of the competition   
 Health & travel insurance for the period of the competition.   
 The participation fees for each delegation is US$ 1.000.00 and will be reviewed 
yearly.  
 
  14  
Twenty-five (25%) of the participation fee should be returned to the Treasurer of IJSO 
within six months for operational costs of the IJSO Organisation (§ 4.1). The Financial 
status of IJSO will be reported by the Treasurer in a written text every year at the 
International Board Meeting and is subject to be audited by the Internal IJSO’s Auditors.  
All cost incurred for creating problems (theory and experiment) for the IJSO event is the 
responsibility of the host country.   
THE COMPETITION  
  
§ 8  
(Schedule)  
  
The competition is divided into three examination papers composed of multiple 
problems, prepared by the SC and conducted over three days with an interval of at least 
one day between each examination. The time allotted to each examination should 
normally be three to four hours. The OC decides the sequence of the competition days.  
§ 8.1  
(Problems)  
  
The problems are arranged into three examination papers. 
The Multiple Choice and Theory Examinations are individual events. However, the 
Practical Examination is a team competition, where one team consists of three students 
of each delegation (each country may have two teams for the Practical Examination).  
In the Multi-Choice-Questionnaire (MCQ) the number of questions should be 30 (thirty). 
Questions for the Multiple Choice Examination should include Physics (10 problems), 
Biology (10 Problems), and Chemistry (10 problems). Each question shall have four 
possible answers with only one being correct.  
This Theory Examination Paper may be organised into sections covering subjects e.g. 
Biology, Chemistry, and Physics and/or themes involving multidisciplinary subject areas. 
This Examination should be more complex involving a combination of Physics, Chemistry, 
and Biology.  
The Practical Examination Paper is an experimental test. Questions for this paper should 
be the combination of Physics, Chemistry, and Biology and should be in equal proportion. 
The questions in these Examination Papers must 
 Be related to the syllabus of IJSO and cover all content of the syllabus as much 
as possible.  
 Be created innovatively and the answers must be language-independent.  
 The questions in these Examination papers may be reviewed by the IJSO Scientific Experts 
(not the local Scientific Committee, but a group formed from the IB by the EC) in advance. 
The SC shall prepare at least 9 (nine) spare multi-choice questions for the Multiple Choice 
examination and at least 3 (three) spare problems for the Theoretical examination. These 
extra questions should be divided equally among all three subjects. When a replacement 
 
  15  
question is being considered, the IB may vote on that alternative alone without 
reference to the other alternatives. The rejected question(s) cannot be reconsidered.  
 
 
 
§ 8.2  
(Problems Discussion)  
  
The problem discussion  
 Can only be attended by leaders, EC members, observers and appointed OC 
members.  
 Must be led by a member of the Scientific Committee (SC) of the host country.  
 Should provide a presentation of the problems by the SC to be discussed by all 
leaders.  
 May be mediated by the president (or nominee) if there is a dispute among the 
leaders.  
 The rejected problem/s must not be reconsidered to be one of the problem/s.  
 Can reject questions that are determined by a simple majority vote of the 
Country Coordinators (CC) present. One country has one vote only.  
 The rejected questions must not be reconsidered to be for any one of the 
Examination papers.  
§ 8.3  
(Problem Translations)  
  
The Team Leaders must not give any clues, changes, simplifications or modifications for 
the problems that have been approved by the IB members when the problems are 
translated to their own languages (translation means to change the sentences/words to 
one language according to the related Dictionary).  
Any country that violates this condition, will be disqualified from the event, and must 
return home immediately without receiving any expenses related to their participation 
budget, from the host country or by IJSO. The official English version will be provided to 
each student on request.  
    
§ 8.4  
 (Marking)  
  
The marking of the examinations is conducted by the Scientific Committee and may be 
revised following discussions with the Team Leaders during moderation (§ 8.5).  
  The maximum points allocated to the problems are:  
 
  16  
 Multiple Choice Examination:                  30 points  
 Theoretical Examination:    30 points  
 Practical Examination:                   40 points  
  
The Multiple Choice Examination and Theoretical Examination are marked individually. In 
the Multiple Choice Examination, the correct answer will be marked 1 (one), the wrong 
answer will get a penalty of 0.25 (zero point twenty-five), and zero marks for not 
answering.  
Each member of the team for the Practical Examination will be awarded the same points. 
For correct marking the team leader/s is/are obliged to state clearly the names of his/her 
students as Team A or Team B. However, the names on each team may be changed 
(reshuffled) only on the arrival date. No more changes can be made afterward.  
§ 8.5  
(Moderation)  
  
Moderation is the discussion of the students’ marks between Team Leaders and SC 
members (§ 8.4).  
On the night prior to moderation, the SC must provide to the team leader the marks and 
the marked examination papers for each student including the marking scheme.  
Each country will be called according to their schedules, and will only be present for 
discussion for the allocated time determined by SC (all countries will get the same time 
allocation).  
At the end of the moderation, the head of the team leaders of each country must sign 
the final agreed mark for their students.  The SC Chair must establish a final mark sheet 
and have the respective marks for each country confirmed and signed off by the head of 
the team leaders for that country. This Final Mark Sheet must be verified immediately 
after moderation has finished. 
No more changes can be made for the students’ marks after moderation, unless there is 
a proven mistake by the SC on their final marks. Furthermore, the moderation  
 Can be led by the chairman of SC members.  
 Can only be attended by leaders, EC member and appointed OC members.  
 The President or nominee should be present in moderation. 
§ 8.6  
(Calculating the Awards)  
  
Medals are allocated on the basis of individual total points. The points allocated to the 
individual for the Multiple Choice and Theoretical Examinations are added to the points 
allocated to team for the Practical Examination.  
 
  17  
In deciding on the Best Theoretical Winner, only results of the Multiple Choice and 
Theoretical Examinations are added.  
In deciding the Best Team only the results of Practical Examination are considered.   
In deciding the Country Winner all six individual scores are added. If there is a tie, Gold 
medals are allocated three points, silver two and bronze one. If there is still a tie, only gold 
and silver are considered and finally only gold. The following examples may explain the 
decision procedure in the case of a tie (grey = Country Winner):  
 
Case 1: 3 delegations with 6 students each with the same total(tie)  
Country Med
als  
Tota
l 
Valu
e  
G/S-
Value  
Gold-
Value  
Delegatio
n A 
3G,
3B  
12  9 no 
matter 
9 no 
matter  
Delegatio
n B  
2G,
3S,1
B  
13  12 no 
matter  
6 no 
matter  
Delegatio
n C  
6S  12  12 no 
matter  
0 no 
matter  
 
Case 2: 3 delegations with 6 students each with the same total. (tie)  
Country  Medals  Total 
Value  
G/S-
Value  
Gold-
Value  
Delegation 
A  
1G,4S,1B  12 
(tie)  
11  3 no 
matter  
Delegation 
B  
3G,3B  12 
(tie)  
9  9 no 
matter  
Delegation 
C  
6S  12 
(tie)  
12  0 no 
matter  
  
Case 3: 3 delegations with 5 or 6 students each with the same total. 
(tie)  
Country  Me
dals  
Total 
Value  
G/S-
Value  
Gold-
Value  
Delegati
on A  
4G,
xx,1
B  
13 (tie)  12 
(tie)  
12  
Delegati
on B  
2G,
3S,
1B  
13 (tie)  12 
(tie)  
6  
Delegati
on C  
6
S  
12 no 
matter  
12 no 
matt
er  
0 no 
matter  
 
 
  18  
  
The Overall Winner is the student who has the highest total points (the total of all three 
Examinations).  
The President and the Chairman of the Scientific Committee will ensure that each student 
has been allocated the correct marks and therefore the correct medal. They will ensure 
that a final register of medals awarded, and the final mark sheet is secured. During the 
discussion of medal allocations real results should not be shown.  
Students’ results will be released only at the closing ceremony of IJSO.   
§ 8.7  
(Awards)  
Certificates  
All students who do not obtain any medal will receive certificates of participation. The 
student who obtains a medal will receive a certificate that clearly mentions the medal 
received.  
Medals  
Medals will be awarded as follows:  
For individual competition:  
Gold medals  : top 10 % (approx.) of all students  
Silver medals  : next 20 % (approx.) of all students  
Bronze medals  : next 30 % (approx.) of all students  
(Must not exceed 60 %)  
For team (experimental) competition (1 medal to each team member):  
Gold medals               : 1st highest point of the team  
Silver medals             : 2nd highest point of the team 
Bronze medals           : 3rd highest point of the team  
  
Special prizes and certificates will be awarded to  
 the  student  who  obtains  the  highest  overall  score  (total  points obtained 
from all Examinations) is called as ”the overall winner”.  
 The student who obtains the highest score for theoretical examinations (total 
points of the Multiple Choice and Theoretical Examinations) is called “the best theory 
winner”.  
A perpetual challenge trophy and flag will be awarded by the President of IJSO to the 
country who achieved the highest accumulated score of all six students and is called “the 
country winner”. The IJSO flag will not be permanently belong to the winner, however to 
be returned to the President of IJSO at the opening ceremony of the next IJSO and will be 
awarded to the next country winner. Additional Special prizes can be awarded at the 
discretion of the host country.  
  
 
 
  19  
  
HONORARY MEMBERS   
  
    
§ 9  
(Honorary Members)   
The IB may award a person the title "Honorary Member of the International Junior 
Science Olympiad" for special service to the IJSO. They may be invited to the IJSO. The 
payment of all expenses of the honorary member is at the discretion of the host country. 
The Past Presidents of IJSO are automatically honorary members of IJSO.  
§ 10  
(Finally)  
  
The original of these Statutes is written in English.  
These Statutes is immediately effective after they are ratified at the 15th IJSO 
International Board Meeting in Doha, Qatar on December 10, 2019. Therefore, the 
previous IJSO Statutes are no longer valid.  
Any IB member may propose changes to the statutes in writing to the Secretary of the 
IJSO, who is then responsible for their circulation. Changes to the statutes can only be 
made at an IB meeting, chaired by the President and specifically called for that purpose 
where more than 66% members present vote in favour of the proposed change OR if 
more than 75 % of the IB members vote for the change by round robin. Ideally IB 
members must receive (and acknowledge) the proposed changes at least 30 days before 
meeting or agreeing, however during an IJSO competition this time requirement may be 
reduced to 2 days.   
  
     
 
  20  
IJSO Guidelines Approved in Doha, December 2019 
 
I. How to become the future host country of an IJSO  
 
A. A country, which has been participating in the IJSO, must state within a reasonable time after 
its acceptance as member of the IJSO its intention to host an IJSO in a certain year. This official 
statement must be sent to the IJSO Administration Centre or President at least two years before 
the intended year to host the IJSO.  
B. The approval of a host country is made at the IB meeting at least two years in advance.  
C. Criteria for accepting a future IJSO host are:  
Official letter of Ministry of Education or similar governmental body confirming the 
willingness of the country to host an IJSO  
naming the organizations and involved bodies (e.g. universities) with their main tasks  
naming the institution, that guarantees the availability of the required finance necessary to 
carry out the IJSO,  
deciding the year, prospective site and fee.  
D. Future organizers accepted as IJSO hosts will inform the IJSO Coordinator Centre regularly 
about the state of preparation and report about important deadlines and milestones.  
E. Future host countries will attend at least two EC meetings before the actual IJSO and are 
encouraged to distribute everything that is relevant and interesting on paper during IB 
(International Board). The presentation itself should be brief and focus only on IJSO relevant 
issues.  
 
II. The role of the host concerned administration  
 
A. the Ministry of Education (or an analogous institution) represents the official authority of the 
host country.  
B. It appoints an organizing committee and sends the official invitation letters, including 
information about possible financial conditions and other duties related to the IJSO membership.  
C. It also assigns an organizing institution and the IJSO competition site. The committee is 
responsible for the preparation and the activities of the IJSO.  
 
III. The main responsibilities of the organizing committee  
 
The organizing committee has the following responsibilities:  
A. Sending information about the IJSO to IJSO member countries and observers by Jan. 1 at the 
IJSO year, including conditions like paying the fee, etc.  
B. The official language of the IJSO is English. The discussion during all meetings and activities 
will only be in English.  
C. A Logo of the IJSO is used in all banners, documents, etc. Sufficient banners should be posted 
around the competition sites, such as hotels for leaders and students, ceremony halls.  
D. Preparing the tasks in correct English, to be checked by a native speaker who is a science 
teacher.  
E. Organizing the IJSO, which includes:  
opening and closing ceremonies;  
problem discussion, problem translation, moderation, award decision;  
conducting the competition;  
excursions;  
assurance of conditions for work of the team leaders;  
International Board;  
preparation of medals for the winners; preparation of certificates for all participating 
members;  
 
  21  
winners of gold, silver, and bronze medals should have some indication about their medal on 
their certificate of attendance. Non-medallists should get a participation certificate.  
F. Providing for food, accommodation, excursion, and transportation to and from the Airport 
and/or the Railway Station for all participating members and observers.  
G. Securing optimum health and safety requirements of the students in relation to travel, 
communication, lodging, food supply, fulfilling experiments and practical examinations, 
recreation activities etc.  
H. Appointing a Chairperson of Scientific Committee to chair all the meetings, including problem 
discussion, problem translation, and moderation and so on.  
I. Arranging facilities, such as photocopying, photo and/or video documentation, computer 
processing of achieved results.  
J. Distributing a new updated version of the addresses list including emails of all coordinators and 
team leaders.  
K. Providing the Administration Centre after the competition with a copy of the files of the 
complete English final version of the Examination papers and answers.  
L. A daily News Letter or leaflet of the event is published and provided.  
M. Providing each country not only with a copy of the filled-out answers sheets of their students 
before the moderation meeting but also with the ranking and final scores after the closing 
ceremony.  
 
N. Preparing a “Programme Book” with details about the current IJSO. The following list is a 
sample of the contents of the Programme Book.  
Programme Book of IJSO20XX  
 
Welcome Messages  
Members of IJSO Organising Committee  
Members of Scientific Committee  
Daily Schedules  
Venues of Competition and Accommodation  
Tour Information  
Words and Phrases of Local Language  
Cultural Information  
Additional Events  
Participating Countries and Participants  
Statutes of IJSO, Guidelines and Syllabus  
History of IJSO  
IJSO Executive Committee  
Useful Information (addresses and phone numbers)  
 
 
O. Preparing a final report within one year after the competition. In general the following items should be 
included in an IJSO report.  
IJSO Report  
 
 
 
committees: their tasks, and how they were recruited  
 
 
ns: average + max + min score per question 
and mean + SD  
important milestones and deadlines for future organizers  
 
  22  
 
 
JSO Scientific Experts, participants, observers and student guides  
 
 One + answers  
 Two + answers  
Examination Three + answers  
 
P. In order to establishing friendly relations among young people from different countries, the host 
country is recommended to offer facilities for students to socialize.  
 
IV. The financial responsibility of a host country  
 
A. The host country must pay for all activities of the hosted IJSO during the specified week, except 
for the travel expenses of the participating members and the observers to and from the city or town 
where the IJSO takes place.  
B. The host country may request each participating country to pay a fee and also determines the fee 
for the observers to the host country, must informs them in advance of this fee.  
 
 
V. Preparation of the IJSO tasks  
General  
A. The host country must appoint a committee of authors responsible for the construction of the IJSO 
Examinations, the design of the proposed tasks and how each question is to be evaluated (marking 
procedure). The members of this committee should be specialists in biology/chemistry/physics and 
science in junior high school.  
B. The committee must study and understand the concept of IJSO, previous IJSO examination 
questions, Syllabus of IJSO and recommendations and principles in relation to the design of valid and 
reliable tasks.  
C. In the current year of the IJSO the group responsible for training the national team of the host 
country for the IJSO should be strictly separated from the expert committee responsible for design of 
IJSO tasks.  
 
Check list  
A. Scientific committee of host country should  
design the questions in accordance with IJSO Syllabus.  
define the rules for conducting the Jury sessions, voting on questions and tasks, conducting the 
exams/tasks, moderation and all other academic activities.  
design the answer sheets  
decide about the scoring procedure and marking  
present in all meetings about scientific issues, including problem discussion, problem translation, 
moderation  
present the scores/results  
calculate the awards  
B. The design of the questions should enable objectively marking and scoring. The answer written in 
the student’s own language should be avoided. The type of questions in Examination Two can be as  
matching a set of aspects  
filling out a number, letter or code, which may be chosen from a provided list with terms  
judging true/false a set of statements about a science problem or phenomenon  
sequencing a set of aspects or events  
C. In order to facilitate the translation process, Examinations should be as concise as possible. The 
host country will do the best to avoid unnecessary words.  
 
  23  
D. Regarding the exams layout it is recommend using the “styles” feature available in every 
document processing software (Microsoft Word or equivalent…): basically a pre-defined 
combination of font name and size.  
E. Examinations should be presented in graphic form as much as possible: graphs, diagrams, 
drawings.  
F. The questions could be pretested with an appropriate target group different from IJSO students, but 
still representative  
G. Tasks should be designed in such a way that the answers are precise and can be objectively 
evaluated. The host country will mention the marking scheme and evaluation procedure for each 
question. This must be approved by the team leaders during the problem discussion and translation 
meeting.  
H. The number of points for each question should be indicated on the exam papers.  
I. Difficult questions should have more points than simple questions in Examination Two and Three.  
J. A range of scores should be allowed for answers reflecting a different range of ability. In the case 
of questions consisting of several sub-questions a subdivision should be applied in the marking (no 
all-or-nothing principle).  
K. So-called piling up questions leading to possible cascade mistakes should be marked in a way that 
is fair to the students (avoiding consequential errors).  
L. If knowledge of a special term or explanation is required, students should not be asked to write 
this in their own language. They should have to choose the correct number from a list of numbered 
terms or explanations. Throughout the examinations students have to mark specific answers in 
applying just one consistent “tick” system.  
M. In order to facilitate the translation procedure and make it possible to write translations in 
between the lines, tasks will be word-processed with double spacing. The host country should be 
aware that plenty of copying facilities are required in order to avoid queuing up during the night after 
finishing the translations.  
N. In order to secure anonymous marking code numbers will be used instead of names for each 
participant. An explanation of the coding procedure will be included in the written instruction on the 
front page of the tasks in native languages. No oral instruction at the start or during of Examination 
sessions should be given.  
O. Calculators to be used in the tasks will be provided with simple statistical functions and 
distributed among students at their arrival at the competition site. Students will be informed that they 
have to bring and use these calculators during the tasks. Using own calculators is not allowed and 
will lead to subtraction of points.  
P. During examinations refreshments will be available for students.  
Q. Taking video shots during the practical tasks is allowed as long as it will not interfere with the 
students. Students participating in IJSO should be informed on forehand by their coordinators that 
they should agree to be filmed/photographed during IJSO for non-commercial purposes.  
R. The Host country needs provide official time keeping during the examinations. The exam start and 
end times and suitable clocks should be displayed so that they are visible to all the students in the 
examination venue. 
 
 
VI. Problem Discussion, translation and Examination procedure  
 
A. The meetings of Problem Discussion (ad-hoc Scientific Committee and plenary meetings) are 
chaired by a Chairperson appointed by the host country. This person is the one and only person 
directing the sessions of Problem Discussion (PD). He/she should be familiar with all IJSO 
regulations and procedures, so he/she should attend a former IJSO. This Chairperson is supervising 
the process and taking care that discussions are going smoothly. Defending questions is not his/her 
task.  
B. The host country will invite the President (or his appointed nominee) to review the examinations 
at least three working days prior to the IJSO week.  
 
  24  
C. In cooperation with representatives from the host country the IJSO Scientific Experts will review 
the examinations, focusing on the quality of the questions in terms of scientific correctness and 
conceptual formulation. They will additionally check the marking allocation plus rationale for marks 
and the balance of topics of the examination according to the IJSO Syllabus. Practical materials 
should be made available to the IJSO Scientific Experts. Examination papers should not leave the 
meeting room of the ad-hoc Scientific Committee.  
D. Native English speakers will check the correctness of all questions from the assessment point of 
view and check the correctness of the answer key.  
E. Experts and interpreters involved in the translation of tasks, taking care of the (word) processing 
corrections during Problem Discussion and processing the statistical evaluation of the results should 
have a scientific background.  
F. Countries willing to use computer for translation of the tasks should bring their own equipment. 
IJSO encourages all countries to type their translations as much as possible.  
G. While translating every delegation will check the answer sheets and mark schemes provided by 
the local-SC. The approval of the answer key and the discussion and translation of the Examinations 
will be in one session.  
H. The local Scientific Committee responsible for the tasks should be present at Problem Discussion 
and be prepared to defend the questions and answer key properly. Authors of the Examinations are 
obliged to be present during the corresponding discussions. In this respect it is necessary that the 
questions should be provided explanations of the correct answers within a list.  
I. In order to reduce possible confusion during voting about the number of votes it is advised that 
every country will be provided with special vote cards.(ex: green card-positive; red card- negative, 
yellow to give a neutral/don’t care opinion)  
J. A Problem Discussion vote regarding more than two options demands several voting rounds going 
step by step in a logic order. In the first step is the decision, if changes of the questions are needed or 
not.  
K. The organizers have the duty to show during the first session the equipment and materials to be 
used by the students during the Examination Three and give a presentation where the task is all 
about.  
L. Students are not allowed to bring any bag in the Examination facilities. They must leave all papers 
in the exam rooms.  
M. At the start of Examination Three, students should be provided with fresh materials and proper 
functioning equipment. On the front page of the tasks, students will be told/ reminded to ask 
supervisors for substitution of inadequate materials or equipment and the organizers should have 
spare materials and equipment available.  
N. In case of complaints about equipment and specimen students should indicate their objection on 
their paper (answer sheet) and have it signed and commented by a lab assistant. In case of an unjust 
complaint a student will lose all points for the experiment concerned.  
O. During the Examinations, assistants can conveniently use a yellow card as a non-verbal warning to 
a suspect student. In case of proven or suspected cheating the Executive Committee will set up a 
specialized committee being in charge of processing the case.  
Student names shall never be revealed.  
As long as there is suspicion only, no country name shall be revealed.  
Once there is a verdict of guilty, the country names will become public.  
IJSO will then publish on its website, in the ranking list only, that “… students from country … 
were disqualified.”  
P. To enable the leaders to translate the papers and the students to read them in time a maximum 
number of words per paper is recommended as follows: 
i. Multiple Choice paper - 2000 to 3500 words 
ii. Theoretical paper – 2000 to 3500 words 
iii. Experimental paper – 2000 – 4000 words (not counting the operating instructions for the equipment) 
 
  25  
 
Section VII – Marking  
 
  A. The Scientific Committee should ensure that there are sufficient resources to mark the 
examination papers in the day following the examination and to photocopy the marked 
examination papers. The photocopied papers must be returned to the Team Leaders within 48 
hours of the exam has been finished. The marked copies of the final exam should be returned to 
the Team Leaders at least 18 hours prior to the beginning of the moderation session. 
B. In each plenary review session the full IB must review the mark allocation and mark scheme for 
the paper – specifically including the breakdown of marks within a question and the application 
of the error carried forward principle. 
C. The marking should embrace the principle of no double penalties also known as the principal of 
error carried forward. For example in a theoretical question if the first part of the question 
produces an answer that is used in another part of the question, then errors in the first part of the 
question should only be penalised in the first part. If the student uses the incorrect answer from 
the first part in the correct way in calculating the second part then the student should be awarded 
the full marks for the second part. Similarly in the experimental paper the student should be 
graded on the range accuracy of the first measurement, but values determined from this 
measurement should earn the full marks if they are processed correctly even if the original 
measurement was outside the range approved. 
 
Section VIII Moderation 
A. The Scientific Committee should publish a schedule of moderation times for each participating 
country in advance, allowing the country leaders to be sufficiently prepared for moderation. 
B. Each Country should be allocated a maximum of 20 minutes for moderation. 
C. The Scientific Committee should adhere to this schedule and not allow Countries to extend 
beyond the 20 minutes nor accommodate Countries who fail to attend their scheduled times. 
D. Moderation should be conducted by strict comparison with the mark scheme agreed with the IB 
in a plenary discussion. No changes are allowed to be made to the version agreed in the plenary 
session, unless the IB agrees that changes are necessary. Adjustments to this mark scheme have 
to be discussed by the IB and can only be accepted by a vote of the IB. If at least six Country 
Coordinators have serious doubts about the marking procedure applied by the Scientific 
Committee they can plead for an extra IB meeting where this issue is settled BEFORE the 
moderation process begins. The majority vote of the IB is the final decision in such disputes. 
E. Members of the Scientific Committee who discussed the examination papers with the IB should 
attend the moderation sessions.  
F. The updated marks are to be shown country-wise to the IB members and signatures taken before 
the meeting of the medal tally. 
G. It is also expected that IB members will adhere to time slots provided and sign on the updated 
marks agreed upon. 
H. In special cases more than 20 minutes can be granted if mutually agreed by the Scientific 
committee and EC member present on the floor 
 
 
 
  26  
IX. The usual protocol during the opening and closing ceremonies  
 
Opening:  
A. Entry and presentation of the IJSO flag.  
B. Lining up of all participating teams with their national flags, in alphabetical order.  
C. Opening address and words of welcome by invited prominent Master of Ceremonies and other 
speakers alternated with cultural and/or musical performances.  
D. Oath by the competitors’ representative while all competitors are standing and raising their right 
hand.  
 
Oath: We, competitors of this International Junior Science Olympiad solemnly swear that we will 
answer the theoretical and practical competition questions in the most responsible way and we will 
compete honestly according to the principles of "Fair Play".  
E. Oath by a representative of the International Board while all delegation leaders are standing and 
raising their right hand.  
 
Oath: We, the members of IJSO International Board, solemnly swear to judge the competition 
according to the valid Rules accepted for this Olympiad and according to the principles of “Fair 
Play”.  
Closing:  
A. Entry of all participating teams (flags are already on the stage).  
B. Address by the main author or president of the IJSO about the competition and other speakers.  
C. Announcement of awards and medal presentation in reverse order, with a clear distinction between 
Certificate of Merit, bronze, silver, and gold. The overall winners ranked 3, 2 and 1 will receive 
special attention during the medal award ceremony.  
D. Interval with musical and/or cultural performances  
E. Distribution among each national team the certificates of attendance while lining up on the stage.  
F. Handing over the IJSO flag to the host country of the next year.  
G. Closing addresses.  
H. Directly after the closing ceremony plenty of copies of the final ranking and results will be 
available for team leaders, competitors and the press.  
 
 
Section X IJSO elections 
 
a. When a position within the IJSO becomes vacant or due for re-election the EC shall declare 
the position open for election and appoint a Returning Officer for the election. 
b. The Returning Officer shall establish a time period to receive nominations. These 
nominations shall be presented to the Returning Officer in writing showing the position, the 
acceptance by the candidate, the IB member nominating the candidate and the IB member 
seconding the candidate. The Returning Officer will ensure that elections are held within five 
days of the position being declared open for election provided this period occurs during an 
IJSO competition. 
c. Candidates who are not in attendance at the meeting may stand for election provided they 
provided completed nominations papers and appoint an agent from the IB members. 
Incumbents standing for re-election must secure nominations in the same manner as all other 
candidates. 
d. The Returning Officer shall set the date and time for the election or declare the candidate 
elected unopposed. In the event that no valid nominations are received the Returning Officer 
 
  27  
shall advise the President who may appoint an IB member to act in position until the 
elections process can be held successfully. 
e. The Returning Officer shall manage the process of the elections. The Returning Officer shall 
ensure that the elections are valid by checking that more than two thirds of the IB members 
eligible to vote (attending the competition etc.) attend the election. 
f. During the election each IB member National Coordinator has one vote. Proxy votes may be 
considered provided they are presented in writing to the Returning Officer prior to the 
elections.  
g. Elections for Vice Presidents shall be conducted on an area basis so that the National 
Coordinators for America only will vote for the Vice President for Americas. 
h. Where there are more than two candidates for the position the Returning Officer shall 
establish at least two rounds of voting. The first round shall be used to reduce the number of 
candidates to two only. 
I.    The President may declare a position open for election if: 
1. the incumbent officer has retired or resigned formally 
2. The incumbent fails to carry out his/ her duties in the opinion of the majority 
of the EC. 
3. The incumbent fails to attend IJSO meetings and competitions without causes 
deemed reasonable by the EC. 
i. The Returning Officer may secure the assistance of two IB members to help with the 
collection and counting of votes. The winner will be declared on the basis of the most votes. 
In the event of two candidates winning the same number of votes, exactly the election will be 
run again. 
j. Elections must be held during IB meetings and all members should be notified at least one 
day in advance of the election.  
XII. Determining priority for IJSO competitions with limited capacity. 
When a hosting country has indicated capacity then they should advise the IJSO IB in advance 
and should work with the President of the IJSO to determine the priority access if too many 
countries complete the pre-Registration details. This priority will be established using the 
following formula: 
 Those countries that have hosted in past earn 10 points 
 Countries who have submitted a formal letter from their ministries, for future hosting earn 
5 points. 
 Countries that have participated in the last 5 years earn 2 points per year 
 Countries that have participated in the previous 5 years (6-10 years) earn 1 point per year 
 Countries that have participated in years prior to 10 years earn 0.5 points per year. 
Based on this formula a “merit list” will be published by the President every year in December 
end for participating in the next year. The list will be published before the closing ceremony 
every year. 
 
 