 
V1.1   2024.08.21 ICPC World Finals – Technical Notes Page 1 of 5 
TECHNICAL NOTES 
 
This document contains important technical information related to the ICPC World Finals 
environment.  It is important that your team read and understand all the information below.  
 
All Programs: 
 Your program must read its input from “standard input”.  
 Your program should send its output to "standard output".  Your program may also send 
output to "standard error", but only output sent to "standard output" will be considered during 
judging.  (Note that sending too much output to “standard error” might be harmful, in the 
sense that it can slow your program down.) 
 All program source code files and/or test data files which you create must be located in or 
beneath your “home directory”.  Your home directory will be named “/home/teamX”, where 
“X” is your team number.  You may create subdirectories beneath your home directory. 
 If your program exits with a non-zero exit code, it will be judged as a Run Time Error. 
 Programs submitted to the judges will be run inside a “sandbox”. 
 The sandbox will allow allocation of up to 2GB of memory for your program.  Your entire 
program, including its runtime environment, must execute within this memory limit.  For 
interpreted languages (Java, Kotlin and Python), the “runtime environment” includes the 
interpreter (that is, the JVM for Java and Kotlin and the Python interpreter for Python). 
 The sandbox memory allocation size will be the same for every language and problem. 
 The command and command-line arguments used to invoke your program within the 
sandbox will be the same as those given below.   
 Programs running in the sandbox will be “pinned” to a single CPU. 
All C/C++ Programs: 
 Use the filename extension “.cpp”  for C++ program files (extensions .cc, .cxx, and .c++ 
can also be used).   Use the filename extension “.c” for C program files.   
All Java Programs: 
 We suggest that you do not use package statements (that is, we suggest that your solution 
reside in the “default package”.)   Use the filename extension “.java” for all Java source files. 
 
 
V1.1   2024.08.21 ICPC World Finals – Technical Notes Page 2 of 5 
All Kotlin Programs: 
 We suggest that you do not use package statements (that is, we suggest that your solution 
reside in the “default package”).  Use the filename extension “.kt” for all Kotlin source files. 
All Python Programs: 
 Only Python3 (but not Python2) is allowed.  Use the filename extension “.py” for all Python3 
source files. 
 Python programs will be “syntax checked” when submitted; programs which fail the syntax 
check will receive a “Compilation Error” response (for which no penalty applies, just as with 
C/C++/Java/Kotlin programs which fail to compile).  See the sections below for information 
on how to perform a syntax check yourself in the same way as will be done by the judges. 
Command Line Usage: 
 You are free to execute (test) your programs on your machine using any method you choose.  
However, it is strongly recommended that you compile and execute your programs using the 
command line scripts described below, which are precisely what the judges will use to 
compile and execute submissions.  Testing your program with these scripts will ensure the 
closest match to the way in which the judges will compile and execute your programs. 
 In particular, note that the runxxx scripts below will pin your program’s execution to a single 
CPU just as the judges will do.  (Note however that the scripts do not invoke a sandbox like 
the judges will do; in particular, the scripts do not enforce memory nor time limits like the 
judge’s sandbox will.) 
Command-line Usage for C/C++: 
 To compile a C or C++ program from a command line, type the command 
compilegcc   progname.c           (for C programs)  or     
compileg++   progname.cpp      (for C++ programs) 
where  progname.c   or   progname.cpp  is the name of your source code file.   
The compilegcc command is a script which invokes the GNU GCC compiler with the same 
options as those used by the judges: 
-x c -g -O2 -std=gnu11 –static ${files} -lm 
The compileg++ command is a script which invokes the GNU G++ compiler with the same 
options as those used by the judges: 
-x c++ -g -O2 -std=gnu++20 –static ${files} 
 To execute a C program after compiling it as above, type the command runc ; to execute a 
C++ program after compiling it as above, type the command runcpp. 
 
V1.1   2024.08.21 ICPC World Finals – Technical Notes Page 3 of 5 
Command-line Usage for Java: 
 To compile a Java program from a command line, type the command 
compilejava   Progname.java 
where Progname.java is the name of your source code file.  This will compile the source 
code in the file Progname.java, and will produce a class file named Progname.class.   
The compilejava command is a script which invokes the javac compiler with the same 
options as those used by the judges: 
-encoding UTF-8 -sourcepath . -d . ${files} 
 To execute a Java program after compiling it, type the command 
runjava  Progname 
where Progname is the name of the class containing your main method  (your source code 
file name without the filename extension).  The runjava command is a script which invokes 
the java command with the following options (which are identical to what the judges will 
use): 
-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -XX:+UseSerialGC -Xss64m -Xms1920m -Xmx1920m ${mainclass} 
Command-line Usage for Python3: 
 To “compile” (syntax-check) a Python3 program from a command line, type the command 
compilepython3  progname.py 
where progname.py is the name of your Python3 source code file.  The compilepython3 
command is a script which invokes the pypy3 Python3 interpreter as follows: 
pypy3 -m py_compile ${files} 
which compiles (but does not execute) the specified Python program and displays the result 
(i.e., whether the compile/syntax-check was successful or not).  
 To execute a Python3 program from a command line, type the command 
runpython3  progname.py 
where progname.py is the name of your Python3 source code file.  The runpython3 
command is a script which invokes the pypy3 Python3 interpreter passing to it the specified 
Python program file.  
 
 
 
V1.1   2024.08.21 ICPC World Finals – Technical Notes Page 4 of 5 
Command-line Usage for Kotlin: 
 To compile a Kotlin program from a command line, type the command 
compilekotlin  progname.kt 
where progname.kt is the name of your Kotlin source code file.  The compilekotlin  
command is a script which invokes the kotlinc compiler with the same arguments as those 
used by the judges: 
-d . ${files} 
 To execute a Kotlin program from a command line, type the command 
runkotlin  PrognameKt 
where progname.kt is the name of your Kotlin source code file (note the capitalization and 
the lack of a period in the runkotlin argument.)  The runkotlin command is a script 
which invokes the Kotlin JVM with the following options (which are identical to what the judges 
will use): 
-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -J-XX:+UseSerialGC -J-Xss64m -J-Xms1920m 
-J-Xmx1920m ${mainclass} 
Submissions 
 Programs are submitted to the judges using the DOMjudge contest control system.  To access 
DOMjudge, use the Applications>Contest>DOMjudge menu item. See the separate 
DOMjudge Team Guide for details on using DOMjudge. 
Language Documentation 
 Documentation for each available programming language can be found on your machine 
under the "Applications>Programming>Documents" menu. 
Printing 
 There will be runners who will deliver printed output to your team workstation (teams will not 
have direct access to the printers).   
 To print a file, we recommend using the following command: 
printfile filename  
where filename is the name of the file you want printed.  Note:  printing using other means, 
for example from within an IDE, may work – but this is not guaranteed. 
 Print jobs are limited to a few pages long; printing excessively long output will be deemed an 
activity detrimental to the contest and subject to disqualification.  
 
V1.1   2024.08.21 ICPC World Finals – Technical Notes Page 5 of 5 
Sample data 
 Sample data for each problem will be provided in the samps directory under the Desktop 
directory beneath your home directory.  If there are testing tools for interactive problems (see 
the separate Judging Notes), then the testing tools will also appear in the corresponding 
samps directory. 
 
Files and Data Storage 
 Any files that you create must be stored underneath your home directory (this does not apply 
to files automatically created by system tools such as editors).  Your machine will be reset 
prior to the start of the World Finals; any files you create or system configuration changes 
you make prior to that will be removed.  
 In the event of the need to pause the contest for unforeseen reasons, team desktops will be 
screen-locked.  Data already saved on disk should not be affected by this process and should 
still be available once the contest is resumed and the desktops are unlocked.  However, any 
virtual consoles will be killed during the pause.  Teams should save files to disk frequently 
and should not use virtual consoles for any data they wish to retain. 
Obtaining Files After The Contest 
 The contents of your home directory (including subdirectories) will be uploaded to the ICPC 
web site after the contest and can then be accessed by your coach. 
  