About the Jessup &#8211; International Law Students Association 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 Skip to content 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Menu 
 ILSA 
 
 Latest News 
 About ILSA 
 Board of Directors 
 ILSA Student Directors 
 Student Deak Award 
 Annual International Refugee Law Student Writing Competition 
 Publications 
 
 Jessup Compendium 
 ILSA Guide to International Law Moot Court Competitions 
 
 
 Policies 
 
 
 Jessup 
 
 About the Jessup 
 Jessup 2027 
 
 Competition Materials 
 Rules 
 Competition Schedule 
 National and Friendly Rounds 
 White & Case International Rounds 
 King & Spalding United States National Rounds 
 
 
 Frequently Asked Questions 
 Registering Your Team 
 Judging at the Jessup 
 Advertising and Sponsorship 
 
 Academic Institution Advertising 
 Law Firm Sponsorship 
 
 
 Jessup History 
 
 
 HLI Moot 
 Donate 
 
 Donate to ILSA 
 All Rise Society 
 Rusty Dalferes Memorial Fund 
 Store 
 
 
 Log In 
 
 
 
 
 
 About the Jessup 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is the Jessup? 

 Jessup is the world&#8217;s largest moot court competition, with participants from roughly 700 law schools in 100 countries and jurisdictions. The Competition is a simulation of a fictional dispute between countries before the International Court of Justice, the judicial organ of the United Nations. One team is allowed to participate from every eligible school. Teams prepare oral and written pleadings arguing both the applicant and respondent positions of the case.

 
 
 

 Jessup 2027 

 Learn more about Jessup 2027. 

 Jessup History 

 The Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition has been held every year since 1960. Discover past Jessup editions here. 

 Jessup Frequently Asked Questions 

 Click for Details 
 Last updated 10 August 2026 

 GENERAL INFORMATION 

 THE JESSUP COMPETITION AND ILSA 

 ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION 

 REGISTERING FOR THE JESSUP COMPETITION 

 COMPETITION FORMAT 

 PREPARING FOR THE COMPETITION 

 

 GENERAL INFORMATION 

 What is the Jessup Competition? 

 The Philip C. Jessup International Moot Court Competition is an advocacy competition for law students. Teams of law students compete against one another through the presentation of oral and written pleadings to address timely issues of public international law in the context of a hypothetical legal dispute between nations. The Compromis, or Problem, is the springboard for the Jessup Competition. Written by leading scholars of international law, the Problem is a compilation of agreed upon facts about the dispute that is submitted for adjudication to the International Court of Justice (ICJ), the primary judicial organ of the United Nations. After the Problem is released, students begin researching and preparing arguments for both sides of the dispute, drafting and editing written pleadings, called “memorials,” and practicing oral presentations. Each team prepares two written memorials and two 45-minute oral presentations, one for each party to the dispute (the “Applicant” and the “Respondent”). Teams argue alternately as Applicant and Respondent against competing teams before a panel of judges, simulating a proceeding before the International Court of Justice.

 How does the Jessup Competition compare to other moot court competitions? 

 The Jessup Competition is the world’s largest moot court competition. It is also the oldest moot court competition dedicated to international law. The Jessup is noteworthy because it is open to law schools all over the world.

 Who was Philip C. Jessup? 

 The Jessup Competition is named after Philip C. Jessup, the United States representative to the International Court of Justice, who was elected by the United Nations to serve a nine-year term in 1961. Judge Jessup had a long and distinguished academic, judicial, and diplomatic career. He practiced law and taught at several American universities until 1961. Jessup was an assistant to Elihu Root during the 1929 Conference of Jurists on the Permanent Court of International Justice. He attended both the Bretton Woods and San Francisco Conferences, and played a key role in the formation of the International Law Commission.

 What is the International Court of Justice? 

 The International Court of Justice, also known as the “ICJ” or “World Court,” is the primary judicial organ of the United Nations. The ICJ was established under the Charter of the United Nations in 1945 to succeed the Permanent Court of International Justice, or PCIJ. The ICJ adjudicates contentious cases between States and provides advisory opinions to legal questions submitted by authorized organs of the United Nations and specialized agencies. The competence, composition, and functions of the ICJ are governed by the Statute of the International Court of Justice. The Court is composed of 15 judges, each elected by the United Nations General Assembly and the Security Council to serve a term of nine years. The seat of the Court is at the Peace Place in The Hague, The Netherlands.

 When will the Problem be released? 

 The Problem is released in September every year. The specific release date of the Problem for the current season can be found in the Official Schedule .

 When is the deadline for submitting Memorials? 

 Memorials must be submitted by the memorial submission deadline indicated in the  Official Schedule . Memorials must be submitted to the ILSA Executive Office by uploading them through the Team Homepage in accordance with the Official Rules, which are released each August. Additional submission requirements and earlier deadlines may be imposed by a Supplement to the Official Rules . It is the responsibility of teams to know the submission requirements of their Rules Supplement, if any, which are posted on  ILSA’s website .

 How do I start a new Jessup Team at my school? 

 Before beginning the process of starting a new team, you should check to make sure that your school does not already have a Jessup Team. Each school may only enter one team in the Competition. Once you have verified that your school does not already have a Jessup Team, we recommend that you seek the advice of faculty members at your school who teach international law or who may be familiar with the Jessup Competition. Faculty advisors are useful because they can mobilize the resources of the school to support your team. Many Jessup teams receive funding, advisory support, and academic credit from their schools.

 Your next step is to introduce the Competition to other students who may be interested in participating on a Jessup Team. Once the members of the team are organized, the last step is to register your team . ILSA recommends that new teams read the White & Case Jessup Guide, a student-focused guide to working with the Jessup Problem, researching international law, writing memorials, and presenting oral arguments.

 Back to Top 

 THE JESSUP COMPETITION AND ILSA 

 What is the relationship between the Jessup Competition and ILSA? 

 The ILSA Executive Office is responsible for the global administration of the Jessup Competition. The ILSA Executive Office appoints Administrators to run Qualifying Rounds in their country. The ILSA Executive Director is the final arbiter in the implementation and interpretation of the Official Rules and Supplements to the Official Rules.

 Can I connect with ILSA and the Jessup Competition on social media? 

 Yes, we encourage everyone to connect with us on social media. Be the first to hear about competition news and updates. Share your pictures from the Jessup Competition and connect with other competitors. For frequent updates on the Jessup Competition, please follow us on social media:

 
 Facebook 

 Instagram 

 LinkedIn 
 

 You can also watch our videos on YouTube .

 Back to Top 

 ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION 

 Which schools are eligible to participate in the Jessup Competition? 

 Any law school, law faculty, or institution with a degree program in international law is eligible to participate in the Competition. Each school may only enter one team to compete, unless the Executive Office determines that extenuating circumstances justify the participation of multiple teams from a single school. Please see the Official Rules, which are released each August, for more detailed information regarding eligibility.

 Which students are eligible to participate on a Jessup Team? 

 Students pursuing a law degree or a degree related to international law at an eligible school may compete on behalf of that school so long as they are enrolled at least part-time and have not engaged in the practice of law after graduating from another law degree program. Some students must also obtain the ILSA Executive Office’s written permission to participate if the Official Rules so require. Please review the Official Rules, which are released each August, for detailed information regarding team member eligibility.

 Can a school have more than one Jessup Team? 

 Generally, no. Each school may only enter one Jessup Team in the Competition. In extenuating circumstances, a school or a tournament Administrator may petition the ILSA Executive Office to allow multiple teams from a single school to compete. For more information, please see the Official Rules, which are released each August.

 How are Team Members selected for a school’s Jessup Team? 

 A school may determine its own method for choosing the members of its Jessup Team. A school may hold an intramural competition to determine the members of the school’s Jessup Team. However, the current Competition Problem may NOT be used in an intramural competition unless the written approval of the ILSA Executive Director has been obtained. For more information, please see the Official Rules, which are released each August.

 How many students may participate on each Jessup Team? 

 Each Jessup Team may have a maximum of five (5) team members. A Jessup Team may choose to have less than five (5) team members, but must have at least two (2) team members to constitute a team. No more than five (5) individuals may contribute to the work product of the team over the course of the competition year. For more information, please see the Official Rules, which are released each August.

 Who may be a team advisor, coach, or faculty advisor? 

 A team advisor is anyone who is responsible for organizing, advising, or training a Jessup Team, such as coaches and faculty advisors. Anyone may act as a team advisor, including professors, lawyers, graduate students, and former Jessup Competitors. Team advisors are allowed to provide general advice and instruction regarding the basic principles of international law to provided overall guidance, but they are prohibited from doing any work for the team such as drafting specific legal arguments. Jessup Teams are not required to have a team advisor, and as a general rule a team should not have more team advisors than necessary to adequately prepare them for fair competition. For more information, please see the Official Rules, which are released each August.

 Back to Top 

 REGISTERING FOR THE JESSUP COMPETITION 

 How can my Team register for the Jessup Competition? 

 To register for the Jessup Competition, a representative from your team (a team member, team advisor, or official team contact) must do the following:

 1. Complete the online Jessup Registration Form by the deadline specified in the Official Schedule .

 2. Complete payment of the Registration Fee by the deadline specified in the Official Schedule .

 3. Register all individual team members by the deadline specified in the Official Schedule .

 4. Teams that compete in a Qualifying Tournament must be sure to comply with the separate registration requirements of the Administrator of their Qualifying Tournament, if any. Please check the Rules Page  periodically to see if a Rules Supplement has been posted for your country.

 What is the deadline for Team Registration? 

 All registration deadlines can be found in the Official Schedule , including deadlines for team rosters, waiver applications, eligibility inquiries, and special permission requests.

 How do I know that my Team’s Jessup registration form has been properly received? 

 As soon as you submit your online Jessup registration form, you should receive an email detailing instructions for logging in to your team homepage. Once you log in, please click on “Pay Now” at the top of the page. You will be directed to a page prompting you to pay using a Credit Card, Check, or Wire Transfer.

 How do I know that my Team’s registration fee has been properly received? 

 Once the payment of your registration fee has been received and processed by the ILSA Executive Office, you will be able to generate a receipt by clicking the “Generate Receipt” button at the top of the page. Your payment status will also be displayed at the top of your Team Homepage.

 How much is the registration fee? 

 The registration fee amount varies by country. You can see a list of Registration Fees here .

 What currency should I use to pay the registration fee? 

 The registration fee must be paid in US Dollars (USD).

 What form of payment should I use to pay the registration fee? 

 Our preferred form of payment would be with credit card. We accept Visa, Master Card, or American Express only. Other acceptable forms of payment include a check or money order from a United States bank, or a wire transfer.

 How do Teams finance the cost of registration? 

 Each team is responsible for funding the cost of registration. Teams that have limited financial resources may apply for a waiver or discount of the registration fee by submitting a completed Request Registration Fee Reduction Application, found under the &#8220;Team&#8221; menu tab, by the deadline indicated in the  Official Schedule .

 How do I make changes to my Team’s registration information, including adding or changing team members? 

 Once team members have been registered through the Team Homepage, changes cannot be made by the Team. To request a change to any team information, please email your request along with reasonable explanation for the change to [email&#160;protected] 

 How do I register a new team member or substitute a team member? 

 Team members are registered by clicking the &#8220;Manage Team&#8221; button on the Team Dashboard. Team members cannot be changed by a Team once registered. To request a substitution, send an email to  [email&#160;protected] , making sure to include explanation of the circumstances justifying the substitution.

 When do Teams receive their team numbers? 

 Teams receive their team numbers once the online registration form has been submitted AND the registration fee has been paid in full. Your team number will be included on the receipt confirming payment of the registration fee and will be displayed on your Team Homepage.

 Back to Top 

 COMPETITION FORMAT 

 What is the schedule for the Jessup Competition? 

 The you can view the  Official Schedule for the Jessup Competition  online. Schools may register for the Jessup Competition up until the Registration Deadline listed in the Official Schedule. The competition season officially begins in September, when the Jessup Competition Problem (the Compromis) is released. Each team’s written pleadings (memorials) must be submitted to the ILSA Executive Office by the deadline indicated in the Official Schedule (usually the first week of January), or earlier if required by an applicable Rules Supplement. Most countries with more than one registered Jessup team hold Qualifying Rounds in January through March. The team or teams representing each country travel to compete in the White & Case International Rounds in March or April of each year.

 What is the official language of the Jessup Competition? 

 The official language of the Jessup Competition is English. All memorials and oral pleadings must be in English, except under the following circumstances:

 Memorials: A team may write and submit its memorials for a Qualifying Round in a language other than English only if permitted by that Qualifying Round’s Rules Supplement. A team that submits its memorials in a language other than English and advances to the White & Case International Rounds must translate its memorials into English and submit them to the ILSA Executive Office by the deadline indicated in the Official Rules, which are released each August. 

 Oral Rounds: A team may present its oral pleadings for a Qualifying Round in a language other than English only if permitted by that Qualifying Round’s Rules Supplement. A team that wishes to present its oral pleadings in a language other than English at the White & Case International Rounds must inform the ILSA Executive Office by the deadline indicated in the Official Rules, which are released each August, and must arrange and pay for an interpreter to translate their oral pleadings into English. 

 What are the different levels of the Jessup Competition? 

 The Jessup Competition consists of two levels: (1) the Qualifying Rounds, and (2) the White & Case International Rounds.

 1. Qualifying Rounds: If more than one team registers for the Jessup Competition from the same country, the ILSA Executive Office will notify each team that a Qualifying Round will be held to determine which team(s) will represent the country at the White & Case International Rounds. The Executive Office will also appoint a National Administrator to organize the Qualifying Round. The Administrator may create a Rules Supplement to the Jessup Official Rules that will regulate the Qualifying Tournament. Each team participating in a Qualifying Tournament will participate in four preliminary oral rounds, arguing twice as Applicant and twice as Respondent. However, if four (4) or fewer teams are participating in a Qualifying Round, the ILSA Executive Office may allow each team to participate in less than four preliminary oral rounds. For more information, please see the Official Rules.

 2. International Rounds: The highest level of the Jessup Competition is the White & Case International Rounds . The White & Case International Rounds includes Preliminary Rounds, Advanced Rounds, and the World Championship Round. During the Preliminary Rounds, each team will compete in four (4) oral rounds, pleading twice as Applicant and twice as Respondent. The White & Case International Rounds last one week. For more information, please see the  Official Rules on ILSA’s website .

 What is a Qualifying Round? 

 When more than one team from a single country registers for the Jessup Competition, a Qualifying Round will be organized to determine which team or teams will represent that country at the White & Case International Rounds. Qualifying Rounds are organized by a National Administrator, appointed by the ILSA Executive Office. The Administrator may develop a Rules Supplement to the Jessup Official Rules that will regulate the Qualifying Round. For more information, please see the Official Rules.

 How many Oral Rounds will my Jessup Team compete in during a Qualifying Round? 

 Each team participating in a Qualifying Round will participate in four preliminary oral rounds, pleading twice as Applicant and twice as Respondent. However, if four (4) or fewer teams are participating in a Qualifying Round, the ILSA Executive Office may allow each team to participate in less than four preliminary oral rounds. If there are any Advanced Rounds in the Tournament, and your team advances, it will compete in one (1) additional oral round each time it advances, pleading as either Applicant or Respondent as determined before each Advanced Round. The Advanced Rounds in a Qualifying Tournament may include Quarter-Final, Semi-Final, and Championship Rounds, depending upon the number of teams competing in the Tournament and subject to the Administrator’s discretion. For more information, please see the Official Rules.

 Does my jurisdiction have a Qualifying Round? 

 The list of jurisdictions that hold Qualifying Rounds varies from year to year. Currently, approximately 50 participating jurisdictions hold Qualifying Rounds. Jurisdictions that have consistently held Qualifying Rounds in recent years include: Argentina; Armenia; Australia; Belgium; Brazil; Canada; Chile; China; Chinese Taipei; Colombia; the Czech Republic; Ethiopia; France; Germany; Ghana; Greece; Hong Kong, China; Hungary; India; Indonesia; Ireland; Israel; Italy; Japan; Kazakhstan; Malaysia; Mexico; the Netherlands; Nigeria; Philippines; Poland; Romania; Russia; South Africa; South Korea; Sri Lanka; Turkey; Ukraine; the United Kingdom; and the United States. If you are unsure whether your jurisdiction will hold a Qualifying Round, please consult the National Round Schedule or email [email&#160;protected] .

 How many teams from each Qualifying Round advance to the International Rounds? 

 Each Qualifying Round may advance at least one team to the White & Case International Rounds of the Competition for every eight teams that participate in its Qualifying Round. Therefore, if twenty teams compete in a Qualifying Round, at least two teams may advance to the White & Case International Rounds. Beyond this minimum threshold, the ILSA Executive Director will determine the exact number of teams that will advance to the White & Case International Rounds and the manner in which they are chosen.

 How many oral rounds will my Jessup Team compete in during the International Rounds? 

 If your Team advances to the International Rounds, it will compete in four preliminary oral rounds, pleading twice as Applicant and twice as Respondent. If your Team advances to the Advanced Rounds, it will compete in one additional oral round each time it advances, pleading as either Applicant or Respondent as determined before each Advanced Round. The Advanced Rounds consist of Run-off Rounds (round of 32), Octo-Finals, Quarter-Finals, Semi-Finals, and the World Championship Rounds. For more information, please see the Official Rules.

 Back to Top 

 PREPARING FOR THE COMPETITION 

 What resources are available to assist my Jessup Team with researching and writing our memorials? 

 ILSA offers a list of “basic materials” to help teams research the Competition Problem. These materials are available to all teams participating in the competition and may be accessed on the Team Tab. These basic materials provide a good overview of resources, topics, and arguments that should not be overlooked. Competitive teams will want to conduct additional research. For release date of the basic materials, please refer to the  Official Schedule . In addition, the ILSA has compiled a variety of other research tools and sources on the Competition Resources page . Finally, ILSA also recommends that teams read the  White & Case Jessup Guide .

 What is the best way to prepare for the Oral Rounds of the Competition? 

 Most teams prepare for their Oral Rounds by holding practice rounds where one team member presents his or her oral pleadings while the other team member(s) serve as Judges. Some teams also invite professors and legal practitioners to attend their practice rounds as guest Judges. Many teams watch videos from the World Championship Round of past International Rounds. These videos allow students to observe the general procedure and set-up of the mooting process, the types of questions asked by judges, and the speaking style of past winners. For an example of what mooting looks like in action, please see video of previous years’ Final Rounds on ILSA’s YouTube Channel .

 How and when do Jessup Teams get passwords to research databases such as Jus Mundi, Oxford University Press, LexisNexis, and HeinOnline? 

 Following the release of the Jessup Problem and once a Jessup Team has paid their registration fee, they will be eligible to receive research passwords. Teams will be contacted by the ILSA Executive Office via email with instructions on how to access that various research platforms made available to competitors.

 How do teams finance the cost of traveling to the International Rounds? 

 Each team is responsible for funding the expenses associated with attending the White & Case International Rounds, including all transportation costs, hotel accommodations, and meals while at the International Rounds. Many teams fundraise by asking their school, local and regional companies, law firms, government agencies, and educational foundations to contribute monetary and other resources. The ILSA Executive Office will provide a letter of support to potential sponsors identified by Jessup Teams. To obtain a letter of support, please contact the ILSA Executive Office at  [email&#160;protected] .

 Does ILSA assist team members, coaches or judges in obtaining visas to attend the International Rounds? 

 ILSA will prepare a letter of invitation for those who need a visa to attend the week-long White & Case International Rounds. ILSA will provide letters only to those who are officially involved with the Competition. Individuals who wish to obtain a letter of invitation must submit their Jessup affiliation details, passport information, and school name in a timely manner to the ILSA Executive Office at  [email&#160;protected] . If an individual qualifies for a letter of invitation, ILSA will send the letter of support to the applicant. The applicant is responsible for submitting the letter of support to the appropriate officials and completing the visa application process.

 What should my Team do to reserve a hotel at the International Rounds? 

 Jessup teams may stay anywhere they like. Most teams stay at a hotel or youth hostel. Some teams stay with friends or family. Other teams make accommodation arrangements through their local embassies. The ILSA Executive Office reserves a block of rooms at the competition venue. The ILSA Executive Office will send instructions for making reservations to all teams advancing to the White & Case International Rounds. Please note that there are a limited number of rooms, and all reservations are on a first-come, first-serve basis. If a team is not able to make reservations at one of these two hotels, teams must find other accommodations on their own. It is important that each advancing team make its reservations as soon as possible. The spring is a popular tourist season, and hotel rooms fill up quickly. Please contact  [email&#160;protected]  with questions about hotel arrangements at the White & Case International Rounds.

 Back to Top 

 If you would like to see additional questions featured on this page, please send your suggestions to the ILSA Executive Office via email to [email&#160;protected] . 

 

 Jessup Awards 

 Each year, Jessup competitors vie for several awards in addition to the Jessup Cup awarded to the winners of the Jessup International Rounds. 

 Click for Details 
 M. Cherif Bassiouni Award 

 Introduced in 2025, this award is named after the late Prof. M. Cherif Bassiouni, a pioneer and leading figure in international criminal law. In addition to his teaching and scholarship, Prof. Bassiouni served as a coach and judge in the Jessup Competition, including as a judge in the World Championship Round in 2004 and 2014. Prof. Bassouni was also a trusted and valued advisor to the ILSA Executive Office for three decades. Until 2025, the Award was named for Hardy C. Dillard.

 The Award is presented to Teams for excellence in Memorial writing by comparing top Memorials across participating jurisdictions. Memorials of the Teams scoring the highest at each Qualifying Round are considered for the Award, which are presented to the top-five scoring Teams.

 Richard R. Baxter Award 

 This Award is named in honor of the late Richard Baxter, who served as Judge of the International Court of Justice, and was an eminent and pioneering scholar of International Law.

 The Award is presented to Teams for excellence in Memorial writing by comparing individual Applicant and Respondent Memorials. The Applicant Memorials that were considered for the Alona E. Evans Award or a M. Cherif Bassiouni Award that received the highest ten total Memorial scores for Applicant Memorials (unadjusted for Penalties) are entered into consideration for the Best Overall Applicant Memorial. The Respondent Memorials that were considered for the Alona E. Evans Award or a M. Cherif Bassiouni Award that received the highest ten total Memorial scores (unadjusted for Penalties) for Respondent Memorials are entered into consideration for the Best Overall Respondent Memorial.

 Alona E. Evans Award 

 This Award is named in honor of the late Professor Evans, the first woman to be elected President of the American Society of International Law, and a faithful supporter of the Competition. The Award is presented to Teams for excellence in Memorial writing at the White & Case International Rounds. Awards will be presented to the top twenty scoring Teams based on total Memorial scores.

 Ved P. Nanda Award 

 Introduced in 2025, this Award is named in honor of Prof. Ved Prakash Nanda, a leading scholar, teacher, and advocate in international law and international human rights law. Prof. Nanda was a multi-term member of the ILSA Board of Directors and a long-time Jessup coach, regional administrator, and judge. He served as author of the 1986 Jessup Compromis and as a judge in the 1994 World Championship Round.

 The Award is presented to individual oralists for excellence in the Preliminary Rounds of the White & Case International Rounds. Awards will be presented to the top twenty qualifying oralists.

 Stephen M. Schwebel Award 

 This Award is named in honor of Stephen M. Schwebel, a jurist and expert on International Law who served as a Judge of the International Court of Justice from 1981 to 2000 and as the Court’s President from 1997 to 2000. In 1959, as a young Assistant Professor of Law at Harvard University, Judge Schwebel established an international law moot court competition, which we recognize today as the Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition. The Award is presented to the best oralist of the World Championship Round.

 Dr. Zhu Wenqi Award 

 This Award is named in honor of Dr. Zhu Wenqi , who founded the Chinese National Rounds in 2001 and served as its National Administrator for more than 23 years. Under Dr. Zhu’s leadership, the Chinese National Rounds grew to become the largest single National Rounds in the world. The Award is presented to a National Administrator for outstanding service and dedication to the Jessup Competition.

 Pamela M. Young Award 

 Created in 1993 in honor of Pamela Young, Assistant Jessup Administrator from 1974 to 1994, this Award recognizes outstanding volunteer service to the Jessup Competition.

 King & Spalding Spirit of the Jessup Award 

 The King & Spalding Spirit of the Jessup Award recognizes the Team that best exemplifies the Jessup spirit of camaraderie, academic excellence, competitiveness, and appreciation of fellow competitors. This award is sponsored by King & Spalding and voted upon by the Jessup participants themselves and is intended to establish the standard to which all participants should strive to govern their performance and professional demeanor.

 

 All Rise Society 

 The All Rise Society, launched in late 2018, is an exclusive giving society for the most distinguished members of the Jessup community. These members form the backbone of the Jessup Competition, ensuring our continued ability to provide law students around the globe with the chance to connect with some of the world’s greatest legal minds, prepare them to enter the most competitive ranks of the legal profession, and nurture their commitment to the peaceful resolution of conflict through the rule of law. Learn more information about the All Rise Society .

 
 

 
 
 
 Cart 
 
 
 Follow Us 

 Facebook 

 Instagram 

 YouTube 

 Flickr 

 LinkedIn 
 
 
 
 Latest News 

 Jessup 2027 Team Registration Open by Christopher Bonnez August 3, 2026 
 Jessup 2027 Rules Released by Christopher Bonnez July 6, 2026 
 Welcome to the new ILSA.org! by Christopher Bonnez July 6, 2026 
 
 
 
 Instagram 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Donate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 &#036; Donation Amount: 
 
 
 
 &#036;500.00 &#036;250.00 &#036;100.00 Custom Amount Donate now 
 
 Select Payment Method 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Authorize.Net - Credit Card 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 Personal Info 

 
 
 
 First Name * 
 
 
 

 
 
 Last Name 

 
 

 
 
 
 Email Address * 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 Comment 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 Credit Card Info 
 
 
 This is a secure SSL encrypted payment. 
 
 
 
 Card Number * 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 CVC * 
 

 
 

 
 
 Cardholder Name * 
 

 
 

 
 
 Expiration * 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Donation Total: 
 
 &#36;100.00 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Contact ILSA 
 
 International Law Students Association
 701 13th Street NW, 12th Floor
Washington, DC 20005 USA
 [email&#160;protected] 

 
 Facebook 

 Instagram 

 YouTube 

 Flickr 

 LinkedIn 
 
 
 
 Subscribe To Our Mailing List 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Email Address 
 
 

 
 Alternative Email: 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 &copy;2026 International Law Students Association. All rights reserved. ILSA is a registered 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. Privacy Policy