The Official American Regions Mathematics League Web Page 
 
 
 
 -->
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Official 
American Regions Mathematics League
 Web Page 
 
 -->
 
 
 
 
 
 -->

 -->
 -->
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Home 

 Supporters 
 Meet Results 
 IRML 

 40th Anniversary Puzzle Hunt -->
 Power Contest 

 ARML Local -->

 ARML. Local 

 ARML Local -->

 ARML Local -->

 Awards 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 ARML/IRML Competition Rules 

 
 
 
 A team will consist of 15 members. Coaches are expected to gauge the strength of each of the 15 member teams and place their students on the teams accordingly. The team that consists of the students who have historically performed with the highest results should be placed on the same 15 member team. The next strongest 15 students should be placed on the next team, etc. Those teams will then be named, A1, A2, A3, etc. if they are to compete in the A division and B1, B2, B3, etc. if they are to compete in the B division Please see the section called "Team Names" of the document called, "General Information for All Sites," for clarification. (This rule was revised in April 2017.)

 

 Each year, regions will be ordered by the highest score achieved by a team in that
region. All teams in the top 20 regions will be required to compete in Division A. The remaining regions may choose the division in which all of their teams will compete. Students on the top teams in each division will receive software and/or book prizes. During the award ceremony, we encourage all students from the same regions as the top teams to come forward to celebrate their team's performance, and we will have additional prizes for these students as well.(This rule was revised in April 2017.)

 

 Old - prior to 04/18/2017 A team will consist of 15 members. Coaches are expected to gauge the strength of each of the 15 member teams and place their students on the teams accordingly. The team that consists of the students who have historically performed with the highest results should be placed on the same 15 member team. The next strongest 15 students should be placed on the next team, etc. Those teams will then be named, A1, A2, B1, B2, B3, etc. Please see the section called "Team Names" of the document called, "General Information for All Sites," for clarification. If any team that a region places in Division B scores higher than that region's teams in Division A, then the team in Division B is automatically placed into Division A. Awards are then distributed accordingly.

 -->

 Old - prior to 04/18/2017 The top seven teams from Division B in the previous competition must compete in Division A for the next three competitions. Any team scoring better than the seventh place team in Division B during the previous competition must compete in Division A for the next three competitions. Please see the document called "Teams That Must Compete In Division A" for clarification. 

 -->

 A student can not have turned 19 before the December 31 immediately preceding the ARML Competition. If the student turns 19 between January 1 and the competition dates he/she would be eligible as long as he/she did not graduate high school (K-12) prior to March 1 of the year of the competition. 
No student who graduated high school prior to March 1 of the year of the competition is eligible for ARML in any case.
If you think there are extenuating circumstances please submit them to the ARML Executive Director, and the ARML Board will consider the matter. 

 

 Old - prior to 04/12/2014 A student can not have turned 19 before December 31, 2012 for the ARML 2012 competition. If the student turns 19 between January 1 and the competition dates they would be eligible as long as they did not graduate high school (K 12) prior to March 1, 2013. If you think there are extenuating circumstances please submit them to Steven Adrian , ARML Executive Director, and the ARML Board will consider the problem.

 
 -->

 
Teams for ARML must be drawn from a well defined region. These geographic regions must be contiguous and non-intersecting. Regions with obvious gerrymandering (e.g., a state plus one student in another distant state) are not acceptable. If any student can potentially compete for more than one team, then the region definitions for all affected teams are in error and must be rewritten to resolve such conflicts. The geographic regions can be as small as a single school (as in the case of Phillips Academy and Phillips Exeter), a city, a county, a state, or as large as a collection of states (as in the case of Desert Southwest). Teams wishing to modify the region from which they can draw their team should contact the Executive Director of ARML for approval. . 

 

 Please see the document above titled "Some Mathematical Ideas Used in the Competition" for a complete description of the concepts that are assumed for the ARML competition. Changes are regularly made to this document.

 

 Calculators will not be allowed on any part of the ARML contest.

 

 The scoring structure of the contest will be as follows.

 Individual Rounds. The Individual Rounds consist of five rounds, each with two questions. One point is awarded for each question answered correctly for a total of 10 points possible per person and 150 points possible per team.

 Team Round. The Team Round consists of ten questions. Each correct answer is awarded five points for a total of 50 possible points per team.

 Power Round. The Power Round is worth 50 points.

 Relay Round. A correct answer submitted in three minutes will be awarded five points; a correct answer submitted in six minutes will be awarded three points. Thus, there are 25 points possible per team for Relay 1 and 25 points possible per team for Relay 2. 

 

 Team score ties are broken by considering the sum of the Team and Power Rounds, then the Relay Round total, and then the Individual Round total.

 

 No substitutions can be made once the Team Round has started. All substitutions must be reported to the Head of the Scoring Room or the Site Chairperson prior to the beginning of the Team Round.

 

 If a team arrives at the meet with fewer than 15 members, they can participate as a team. During the Relay Round the team would form as many complete three person teams as possible. If a team is short one member then the two students will receive only questions two and three. If they are short two members then the single member will receive only question three. Should these abbreviated teams have the correct answer, they will get credit for it.

 

 Should a pre-registered student arrive late for any reason, he/she may join the team on which he/she is registered during the next official break in the meet. (Between the Team and Power rounds, before the beginning of any Individual round, before the beginning of either Relay round.)

 

 The use of "borrowed" students is prohibited. No student can participate on a team he/she is not registered with for housing.

 

 No teams can be added to the competition later than 15 days prior to the Friday the meet begins.

 

 Use of a dictionary in book form will be allowed for participants whose first language is not English. Electronic dictionaries or translators are not allowed.

 

 Use of a visual aid such as a magnifying glass is allowed for participants with a visual handicap. These must be inspected prior to the beginning of the Team round by the Team proctor. If any question arises as to the legitimacy of the device, the Site Chairperson will have the final word.

 

 During the Individual round there is to be absolutely no communication between students once the questions are handed out.

 

 The procedures for the Relay Round are very specific. Please review the next rule below for a complete description of the Relay Round. 

 During the Relay round only the answer to the question in the student's possession can be passed on to the next person on the team. The answer may be underlined to show orientation but that is the only mark that can be on the paper. The method of passing of answer(s) should, in no way, indicate anything besides the answer to the question. No comments or any other information may be communicated at any time during the Relay round. In the past, we have found that ARML participants have devised methods to communicate with members of their team. These practices are violations of the rules of the competition. Such practices include, but are not limited to: passing back multiple pieces of paper with the same answer at the same time in an effort to communicate that the participant is very certain of his/her computation, or a participant audibly crumpling and/or throwing a piece of paper on the floor to communicate to another participant that his/her submitted answer cannot be used in subsequent problems. Participants may underline answers so that they will be read correctly, to distinguish between a 6 and a 9, for example. In the spirit of fair and honest competition, and so that all individual teams are competing on the same playing field, we hope that all participants will abide by the rules as they were originally intended. Relay teams that are found to be communicating more than the answer to the problem will possibly face disqualification. Specific penalties will be decided by the ARML officials.

 

 Once seated, Relay teams will remain unchanged until the end of regular competition.

 

 Teams can ONLY submit exactly one solution to the Power Question. If additional solutions are submitted, then all solutions will be corrected and the team will be assessed the lowest score obtained.

 

 Electronic devices are not allowed to be used in any part of the contest. This includes all cell phones, smart phones, computers, tablets, or any other device that used electricity (AC or DC) and has an on/off switch. If such an electronic device is discovered in the room during the Team or Power round then the team will be disqualified from that round. Proctors will collect all electronic devices before the Team round and will return them at the end of the Power round. Also, all electronic devices must be in the off mode during all other competition and award events. It is the responsibility of the students to recover their electronic device following the Power round in the event that they were collected by the proctor as required. 

 

 Students are expected to obey the above rules. They are also expected to respect the property of the University, ARML, and their respective teams. Failure to comply can lead to deletion of those students' scores for the round or disqualification of those involved for the entire competition. If deemed serious enough by the Site Chairperson, Coach, and/or Head Judge, a student may be removed from the premises by a coach, parent, or guardian.

 
 

 If a student is caught cheating, the repercussions for the current
contest are defined as follows:

 
 If the cheating instance takes place during the Team or Power
round, the score for that round is nullified. 

 If the cheating instance takes place during the Individual round,
that student's scores are nullified for all of his/her Individual
rounds. 

 If the cheating instance takes place during the Relay round, that
student's scores are nullified for his or her three member relay team for both relay rounds. 

 The student is barred from competing in the remainder of the
competition. The student's relay team will compete with one less
student and those students will occupy positions 2 and 3. 

 Further disciplinary actions are at the discretion of the student's
team leaders. 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ARML 
 

 President's Letter for 2020 Competition --> 
 
 ARML 2019 Registration
(Deadline - May 13, 2019) 

 Use the above link to register for ARML 2019. You will need to create a new login. -->

 ARML 2018 Registration will open on April 16, 2018 -->
 ARML 2021 Registration will open on May 5, 2021 -->
 ARML 2021 Registration is now open! -->

 ARML 2023 Final Results 
 
 ARML 2022 Final Results 
 ARML 2022 ARML Local Results 
 
 ARML 2021 Final Results 
 Promotional Video by ARML participant Aditya Gupta 

 ARML Executive Board 

 ARML Books 

 Contest Documents from 2014-->

 Code of Conduct Policy 

 Registration removed october 11, 2015-->
 IRML -->

 Division Structure 

 Teams That Must Compete In Division A in 2023 
 (Updated 5/30/23) 

 2022 Penn State Docs 
 (For Reference) --> 
 
 SAT Alternate Date Info. From The College Board -->
 
 ARML Conventions 
 
 
 ARML 2013 Documents 
 --> Competiton Rules 
 Competition Results -->
 Contest File (2019) 
 Contest Book (2009-2014) 
 
 
 How To Form a Team 
 Frequently Asked Questions -->

 ARML 2013 Documents -->

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 &copy; 2012 Design by FCT