Research Challenge | CFA Institute 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content
 

 
 Employers Universities University students 
 
 
 
 
 Sign In 
 Create Account 
 
 
 
 
 Open Search Overlay Close Search Overlay I'm looking for: 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign In 
 Create Account 
 
 
 Programs CFA® Program Overview Exam Dates & fees Curriculum Learning Ecosystem Career prospects Policies Registered candidate resources Enroll and register Other programs CIPM® Program Sustainable Investing Principles of Sustainable Investing (Chinese) 可持续投资基础证书 Climate Investing Private Markets Private Equity Investment Foundations® View all programs Learning paths Private markets Sustainability Program support Help choosing a program All candidate resources Candidate sign in Membership Explore membership Membership overview Compare membership types Charterholder membership Professional membership Associate membership For members Find a member Renew membership Member portal Additional resources CFA Institute job board Communities Volunteering Find a CFA Society® Professional learning program Insights Research & Policy Center Research and thought leadership Financial Analysts Journal Research Foundation Podcasts & blogs Research & Policy Center In Brief Career insights Digital innovation First person Trends ESG View all articles Events Upcoming events Event recordings Event sponsorship Research Challenge CFA Institute at industry events Learning resources Professional learning resources Refresher readings Ethics resources Standards Industry standards GIPS® Standards Asset Manager Code™ Inclusion Code ESG Standards for Investment Products Policy and Advocacy More in Research & Policy Center Professional standards Code of Ethics and Standards Professional Conduct Disciplinary sanctions Report misconduct Learn more About CFA Institute Who we are Our purpose Our history Press room Governance Leadership team Board of Governors Committees and Councils Annual reports CFA Institute policies Learn more Careers CFA Institute careers Working at CFA Institute Our values Our departments Search jobs Customer support Contact us 
 Employers Universities University students 
 
 
 
 
 Breadcrumb 
 
 
 Home 
 
 
 Insights 
 
 
 Events 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 notices - See details 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 Notices &#58829; 
 
 
 
 Dismiss all 
 
 
 
 CFA Institute Research Challenge 
 This annual global equity research competition provides university students with hands-on mentoring and intensive training in financial analysis. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Are you a student? 
 
Get more from Research Challenge with ICAN. See how students like you build real-world skills, discover where past entrants are now, and why thousands take part.

 
 Research Challenge on ICAN 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is the challenge? 
 The CFA Institute Research Challenge is an annual global competition that provides university students with hands-on mentoring and intensive training in financial analysis and professional ethics. Each student will be tested on their analytical, valuation, report writing, and presentation skills. They gain real-world experience as they assume the role of a research analyst. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 How it works 
 Local level competitions are organized and judged by CFA Institute society members and volunteers who function as local hosts. 

 The winning university team from each local competition advances to the sub-regional competition.

 The sub-regional, regional, and global competitions are hosted by CFA Institute in the Americas; the Asia Pacific; and the Europe, Middle East, and Africa regions. The winning teams from each sub-regional competition advance to the regional competition. Regional winners advance to the Global Final, where one team emerges as the global champion.

 View the sub-region breakdown (PDF) 

 Get the fact card (PDF) 

 View the Official Rules (PDF) 

 

 
 
 Competition Schedule 
 University teams begin their activities in the fall, with local competitions occurring throughout the world at various times early in the calendar year. Sub-regional, regional competitions and the global final are held in March, April, and May.

 Sub-Regionals 

 The Sub-Regional round will take place during the month of March. After all local competitions have completed, local winners will receive specific instructions for recording their sub-regional presentations. Teams advancing from the sub-regionals to the regional semifinals will be announced at the end of March.

 Regional Semifinals 

 6-7 April 2027

 Regional Finals 

 8-9 April 2027

 Global Final 

 Week of 10 May 2027
Location: Singapore

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Supported by: 

 
 
 
 
 Image 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Get involved 
 University students 
 University teams consist of three to five undergraduate or graduate students that produce the written report and the presentation. To participate in the Research Challenge:

 
 Confirm your eligibility 
 Find out if your university participates 
 Follow up with a faculty advisor 
 
 
 View eligibility requirements 
 Volunteers 
 Volunteers are essential to the success of the Research Challenge. Please consider one of these roles:

 
 Faculty Advisor: Typically employed by the team's university, a faculty advisor provides guidance and direction to the team throughout all levels of competition. 
 Report Grader: Selected by the local host, report graders evaluate the team’s written reports. 
 Hosts: Include the CFA Institute Member Society, CFA Institute, or CFA Institute approved third-party responsible for sponsoring either the local level, sub-regional level, regional level, or global level of the Research Challenge. 
 Industry Mentor: These industry professionals, preferably CFA® charterholders, are assigned to the team by the local host to review the team’s written report and provide critique of their presentation. 
 Presentation Judge: Selected by the competition host, judges evaluate the presentations (ten-minute oral and visual presentations prepared by the team). 
 
 
 Learn more about volunteering 
 Industry 
 The subject company is a publicly traded company assigned by the host to the team as the basis for the written report and presentation.

 Consider becoming the subject of the competition to gain unbiased research about your company or explore sponsorship and exhibitor opportunities.

 
 Contact us to discuss opportunities 
 Research challenge: Classroom series 
 This toolkit provides professors with a structured framework for engaging an entire class in a realistic, hands-on learning experience. Students gain insight into the CFA Institute Research Challenge while developing essential career skills by stepping into the role of a research analyst. Offered as part of the Classroom Series, this simulation is separate from the official competition and can be used either to prepare students for future participation in the Research Challenge or to provide access to a key component of the experience where the competition is not available locally.

 
 Explore the classroom series 
 
 
 
 
 Stay updated 
 Keep up with the current competition progress on our dedicated site. 
 Learn more (link opens in new window) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 CFA Institute
 
 
 
 Who we are 
 
 
 Governance 
 
 
 Press room 
 
 
 Events 
 
 
 Careers 
 
 
 Contact us 
 
 
 
 
 
 Programs
 
 
 
 CFA® Program 
 
 
 All programs 
 
 
 Candidate resources 
 
 
 Help choosing a program 
 
 
 
 
 
 Membership
 
 
 
 Membership overview 
 
 
 Compare membership types 
 
 
 Membership renewal 
 
 
 Find a CFA Society® 
 
 
 Volunteering 
 
 
 
 
 
 Legal
 
 
 
 Privacy policy 
 
 
 Terms and conditions 
 
 
 AI Usage Statement 
 
 
 Accessibility 
 
 
 Sitemap 
 
 
 Cookie preferences 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Connect with CFA Institute on LinkedIn Connect with CFA Institute on Instagram Connect with CFA Institute on YouTube Connect with CFA Institute on Facebook Connect with CFA Institute on WeChat 
 © 2026 CFA Institute. All rights reserved.

 CFA®, Chartered Financial Analyst®, CIPM®, and GIPS® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.