<pm>
I want to begin this debate by answering what a right to justice is. I think generally, this is right again, giving each third do its right to uphold from society. It's a right to fairness in relation to laws. I feel like that should be relatively uncontroversial, But justice is but what is a right to justice practically? I think it's three things. One, it's not just bias. It's an evolving right that's integrated into the general fabric of the society. This means that probably has a degree of precedent, even if it isn't entirely beholden to preference. I'm going to look towards like working conception of a chain novel here in terms of law, where it's an evolving story told by various legal rulings. A ruling might not deviate, they might deviate from precedent, but it still exists in relation to precedent. It should also exist in relation to a general right second, I think it's like somewhat integrated into society, and like, the interest of the law, and like what society holds right, like, society's understanding of justice obviously varies over time. The right justice probably varies. It's different now than it was in like, the 1800s However, it's still in the context of that Preston. Third, and finally, I think this exists in relation to constitutional rights. I don't want to hear some, like, dumb arguments about how, like, there's not going to be, like, trade laws in the economy. About this. There's probably still laws in, like, other parts of the world, even if there's some controversial disputes. I think the principle, like, there's still present that exists. It's just flexible to a degree. I'll take a PO composing now. No, I'll take one for you later. Okay, so I think, like, just principally, I think, like, the core sort of Clash of this debate is going to be a comparative, because I'm sure ops gonna argue like, Ah, this right to justice could be literally every anything you could just pass, like, arbitrary laws to get stuff. I know that's the argument, but I think equally you have to answer the question of, like, how constitutional laws are not just going to be so specific and so individually tailored as prevent the application of justice in a society. And what we're going to show you is that based on how the Constitution is written, it can equally be entirely arbitrary. But why is a right to justice general better as a general principle? I think one appeals to justice are just more likely to succeed in protecting the interests of citizens because they can operate in relation to preference precedent, but also like a social understanding, for example, like police brutality laws in the US that are technically constitutional via qualified immunity, but obviously do not accord with society's gender understanding from justice. So thank you. The second is, I think that the system disincentivizes arbitrariness ops. Worst case portrayal is going to be like, Ah, this is ridiculous, because there could be, like, literally anything. But I think that you have to understand how this would work in like, the real world, like courts would want to maintain a some amount of objectivity and precedent to allow things to work. That precedent is just going to be flexible in relation to society's understanding of Justice and the value that we accord to that preference precedent will be existed in relation to both the precedent and the general theory of justice. Now, what are the substantive arguments as why constitutional rights is bad? Because I'm sure lots to stand up here and promote like a very rosy picture of constitutional rights, that it's like the freedoms of minorities are being trampled upon, but this part of the law says they have freedom of speech or whatever. I think it's not always the case for a few reasons. The first is that rights are fundamentally inflexible. They don't change over time. You can look at this in like gun laws in the US that are, frankly, absolutely ridiculous because they were written in the 1700s this prevents society moved from moving on and, like, adopting logical things. But equally, I think it can also institutionalize historical oppression. Because if you believe that people can like, like, engage in like, have like, terrible views, and you think that might be arbitrary in our current society, you have to recognize that constitutions like internalize and integrate into law the terrible views of people 300 years ago, which are comparatively net worse than the views we hold today. And not only that, those views can't change, they are literally written into the law. I think, like, like, yeah, like, a race, status quo, people, racist press, which is what creates the Constitution. But second, I think fundamentally that rights do not provide enough protection. Why is this the case? I think that rights are generally very inflexible. What this means is they apply to very specific things, and they're very tailored. This allows gratuitous violations of these rights, given that the violation falls slightly outside the principle. For example, Jim Crow like was obviously like, very wrong, but did was technically legal be the specifics of the US Constitution, or another example, like burning draft cards, the way the First Amendment is written is like, very specific that like that does not count as freedom of speech in all specific cases. It was only when it was revised and understanding the theory of justice that did happen, but from the particular President which was used to disqualify it, and the constitutional ruling in that case, which still exists today, no thank you, is that if it incites violence like burning draft cards, does it is not allowed under freedom of speech. I think the third reason, finally, is that rights lend themselves to sort of overly technical interpretation that is restrictive. Why is this the case? I think you have to recognize that the writing of constitutions doesn't occur in a vacuum. It's shaped by like political influence, like lobbying the people like the Supreme Court justices who get like applied to interpret these rights are like come from a law firm that have corporate interests exist in relation to political parties. Why does this case the powerful applicants an active incentive to, like, make sure these rights are not accountable to the general population? If an active incentive to shape these rights, they're very inflexible and very textual, so that they don't protect the things that they should protect. You can see this and like specifics like Roe versus Wade, which got overturned. Not because the Supreme Court decided they liked abortion, but because of a cause of interstate commerce and primary privacy, and like states ability to regulate that because the federal restrictions are so hard, I think comparatively, this makes the poor much harder and makes the blind social justice much harder, because these systems get so esoteric. Is this closing? 

<poi>
Yeah, rovers was also passed because of a right to privacy that was in kind?
</poi>

No, it was passed. It wasn't passed through the right privacy that was enshrined. The right to privacy is an unofficial part of the US Constitution that doesn't exist because it's based upon the Fourth Amendment, which is no unreasonable searches and seizures. The right privacy could be struck down by the Supreme Court tomorrow because it doesn't accord by the text of the Constitution. It is only based on the full arbitrariness that the Constitution COVID, which I'm going to get to later, because your arguments collapse to a theory of justice. But equally, this means that all the symmetrical parts of like the oppression exist on their side, because the Constitution can simply be tailored, be as oppressive as possible or to be as not restrictive as possible. We check back. It's either. It's easier to get general influence in our society. It's easier to change general ideas in society. It's easier to shape our conception of justice that exists in relation to precedent. The final thing I want to deal with here is the comparative because ops going to be like, Ah, you can just change everything at will. There are a couple of reasons why a constitution won't change. Either. One, bigoted courts that interpret it, that internalize the same kind of bigotry to bigotry that would have been applied to theory of justice. Second, a bigoted government, they'll find ways around it to certain event it like happens all the time of the constitutions. Third, all their mechanisms about society being racist and doing racist stuff applies in either world. If it's not going to be solved by a theory of justice, it won't be solved by rights. Five, those rates have to be interpreted by someone, but that begs the question of their interpretation, and that begs if they're actually written in a way that lends itself favorable participation. Six, and most importantly, the threshold for change, and the threshold for changing constitutional rights is far higher than the threshold for changing society's version of justice, which means you can't remove equally messed up constitutional rights that take rights away from minorities because it's much harder to amend the Constitution. The fact that it can be changed proves that there's some overarching principle in society, which proves the other arguments, kind of constitution being a dead document or complete Yes, because we only change what's convenient for us, which shows that we Should just adopt over our should principal justice.
</pm>

<lo>
It is this debate to show that Supreme Courts are impartial, or at least significantly more impartial the governments are. I will show that this is not the case, and in doing that, it will integrate variable and take opening government, and consequently closing government out of this debate. You have to realize, in a vast range of countries, pretty much all of them, Supreme Courts are heavily politicized. We're not talking just about Poland, where the war on Justice Party staff the Supreme Court. Supreme Court directly. We're also talking about a United States of America where supreme court offices are directly appointed for political preferences and survive as activisms of administrations 30 years after that administration has been voted out of office. This means that on either side of the house, we have a direct government influence on how this court is going to judge. So it could be more later, but secondly, not a principal harm before I move on to any of my other arguments. This means that in so far as right to justice is easier to interpret, insofar as it's wider, I a different ideology interpret justice differently. This means that there is a fundamental political injustice being dealt with citizens who go in front of the Supreme Court insofar as their arbitrarily prefaced or disprefaced based on the accordance of their ideology, with the ideology of the particular judge of court, is not perfect on either side of the house, but the wider the scope of interpretation, the wider the arbitrary preference. Therefore, in support all citizens should have equal recourse to the state in support of the reciprocally give the right to the state. There's a fundamental principle and justice which already makes us win this debate. But secondly, on context, though, this debate is not about amazing, lovely countries where the arc of history bends towards justice, because probably people vote in good governments in those countries, and we don't need constitutional oversight. This debate is the more relevant, the more we go into problematic countries. The more problematic the country is, the more people need something to fall back on. In countries where there is corruption, where there are human rights abuses, where there are laws that exclude ethnic groups, where local district courts are corrupt and bribed by local mafia bosses. This is where you need the highest epilotor as a way to challenge the government. Disputes about rights are only relevant when rights are contentious. This is not about me being able to say, I love me as a friend in this room, because nobody disputes that. It's about me being able to say I love a man in a country advanced homosexuality in those countries, the status quo, it's already heavily tip towards the government, and this is where you need a counter balancing mechanism. Here's the comparative. In the comparative, we have at least some form of limitation in the sense in which the Constitution is worded, even in the worst case scenario for us, probably the USA is the SD country. We have right to self defense enshrined in the Constitution. Write the speech in. Identity, constitution, right to say, fair trial and events, corpus, etcetera, etcetera, as opposed to just rebate and broad right to justice. How does this work and why? What are the mechanisms as to why it's going to provide better protection to citizens on our on our side of the house, which we believe is a principle right in so far as the state has disproportion power over us to legislate and force us to be legislated upon, because we cannot present the state, therefore mechanisms to the legal system are the only thing and the only recourse we have. Firstly, a constitution, which directly gives you, say, freedom of speech, provides you elicitation for a particular act, regardless of the people around you. Think about that. IE, if the Constitution says I have the right opinion of speech, the current societal atmosphere might be that people don't want me to speak, but there's a paper that tells me that I can, which means it's the burden of group of the government to take away this right for me, whereas on their side of the house, we have an amorphous sense of justice which is dependent on cultural context or this general moral relativity, because either opening government is right, and the right of justice is going to be based on some concrete principles, concrete theories of jobs, because presumably the government of all reached organ on opening government side of the house. If that's correct, then we both agree and we just have more specific rules. Or that's not actually the comparative debate and the way countries shape their constitutions and their sense of justice. It's based on the particular cultural context at that point in time. The real point is just in Afghanistan and Iran vastly differs from what is dropped in this rule, and this word becomes problematic, the justices amorphous whistleblowers. For example, whistleblowers can appeal to the right to freedom of speech has been taken away from me. I spoke, and there's a paper that says, I can person because they can, because the state can say, for the greater good, we think we should ban this, or we think this is not within our definition of justice. Secondly, this course of inalienability, Bill of Rights do very often directly quote the idea that human rights are inalienable cannot be taken from the individual, not even by the government, which is a very literalist approach to law that lawyers can only take underserved house. Thirdly, though, the process of writing constitutions, the majority of this debate happens in post COVID societies, young countries, post colonial countries, due to the urgency of establishing the legal systems and institutions within these countries, what they most often do is they rewrite Western constitutions and build up right based upon Enlightenment principles, which means there is inherently a more a more progressive constitution in place than the current cultural context in countries where this debate is comparative on their side of house, that doesn't happen because they don't have a bill of rights in the first place. The Constitution creation process on their side of the house is a direct transposition of the current cultural norms. If those norms are good and the debate is uncomparative, but where they're problematic, the citizens of the rigorous courts, the state. Fourthly, it's easier on our side, for an international community to oversee these things. There's an incentive for them to do that, firstly, because they want to have stable and democratic partners, but also the verge signal to their own citizens they're protecting democracy. There's also an incentive for countries that are less developed to try to follow these rules and follow these principles, because they won't have good relations with more developed countries. However, build the bar in the status quo. When the Law and Justice Party stacks the Supreme Court, the EU can say, this is a very clear violation of your own constitution, and therefore we can activate the nuclear option on their side of the house. They don't even have to stab the Supreme Court. They only have to depend on the high likelihood that the random Polish judge appointed to the court is not going to be progressive, but basically it's likely is not, which means there is a less incentive for the for the governments to behave by an arsenal of the house, and they have a higher bar. They have to directly stack the court. They can be challenged for that, not just internally, but also, but external community. Before we move on, i take your proposal.

<poi>
Why would the constitution to begin with, the progress?
</poi>

So first of all, I already explained why most countries, comparative, it's progressive insofar as it's rewritten from other previous examples. But it doesn't have to be just post government societies, insofar as countries tend to want to join the international community as a country being created in the first place, right? You want to be recognized by other countries, by international institutions, because you won't have to establish diplomacy. This means you are likely to at least try to pretend, optically, that you subscribe to their principles. Which is why are going to take inspiration from US Constitution? I don't know. It won't take inspiration from the constitution of like, I mean, Croatia, for example. Lastly, President is clear on our side of the house because it's tied to a particular case in the case of freedom of speech, which shot and this or that way, whereas on their side of the house, we cannot point What the What element of justice, what part of job is exactly about it for either for judges to interpret. So President is less clear. But also president, here's how this works. Rulers would wait, would be repealed on either side of the house, because the justice is defined by the people and by the context of society. And people vote on governments that stack courts, then the people that voted for Trump would have, at some point in the last 50 years, defined justice as being not killing a pre board baby. It's an uncomparative debate in the side of the house, what is comparative it's an art of the house. Government undertake less egregious abuse because they know it's less likely they can get away with it. There's going to be well reasoned NGOs challenging them with that, and in five years time, they're going to have to deal with the optical problem of having a Constitutional Court take down their law, which can be instrumentalized by the opposition at the point where they can appeal to justice to avoid that they're more likely to undertake egregious abuse and harm their citizens rights. I think opening up concerns already won and. We still have another set of minutes of speaking.
</lo>

<dpm>
Okay, so firstly, some rebuttal for the opening opposition about whether the Constitution constitutes something to pull back on for, like oppressed minorities in unprogressive societies. And then onto my pace, which is probably like, which is a direct clash, which is essentially that even if it is a higher burden for people to bring this, bring this case to court, because they have to show like, it's a specific right against right of justice, rather than just like, some specific right, I think that once they have successfully brought that case in front of the government, it is much harder for the government to then, to then, To then, like put down, to put down that case, they are much more likely to agree. You're much more likely to get change and progression. But firstly, on to for my rebuttal. Okay? Firstly is presuppose, as was pointed out, that the Constitution is necessarily liberal. The only reason it really we got for this is that people who people in developing countries, who are bored, people in post conflict societies are likely to want to copy the West. Okay, a few responses. Firstly, if they want to copy the West, I'm unclear why they wouldn't also want to copy the West when they're, like, giving judgements in Supreme Court and creating that kind of press in IE, people who are writing Constitution are going to be largely similar, have similar motivation to the first people on the Supreme Court of that country. So if they want to, like, emulate the West, they're going to do this on, like on from side of the Supreme Court as well, right? Secondly, we think that this motivation is large, is not, is not necessary or likely, right? We think that very often, like democratical liberal values are associated with the West, are associated with Imperial values. And so in case times of conflict, in times where there's a lot of uncertainty, in times, especially where there's a lot of urgency and people are scared and people want to hang on to something, they are much more likely to revert back to traditional values than just to just go with the west, to get, like, to get some kind of sport from a from someone they see who doesn't want to support them anyway, right? And then, yeah, so that's why the Constitution is unlikely to be present, right? Okay? Secondly, even if the Constitution is progressive, we think fundamentally that it still depends on interpretation. Right? We don't think there is a qualitative like difference on either side of the house on like on interpretation. It is simply like the amount of amount of interpretation freedom that judges have, and this specifically where it comes from, right? We think on our on our side of the house, they have more intact freedom up like first right. But in so far, as it has been shown that that this specific right to justice has been violated, they have no choice but to rule in favor of the person bringing their kids. Whereas what's the comparative right? We think rights very often conflict, and constitutional rights very often conflict. And at that point it is much more down to the free, again, the free, the interpretation of the judge, right? It's much more down to that, like, two precedents, right? So safe, like, someone's right to privacy and someone's right to, like, I don't know, freedom of speech, conflict. At that point, it's very much down to the interpretation of the judge, which one's more important, right? But on the but on our side of the house. If you can prove that your right to justice has been, has been in COVID, there is nothing that judge can weigh against. We take the burden that it is harder to prove that your right to justice has been, has been like, has been like has been has been violated, right? We take that burden, but we think fundamentally, that's a better world than one where the judge had the power to, like, weigh off the different rights in the Constitution. Why? Why is this? Um,...

<poi>
If you see that in situations of urgency, people will default to defining concepts based on their tradition, doesn't it also apply to how they will define justice, as per the theory.
</poi>

theory? Yeah, but we think, we think fundamentally, once you've kind of established you're likely to move away from that tradition. You're likely to be more open to progressive values once those grassroots movements in your country tracks come about. The comparative is that even if you start with traditional values on both sides of house, at least on our side of the house, they're not enshrined in your constitution for like, the next 300 years. You can develop, you can change. That is this flexibility. Okay, so on to my case. Yes. Why do we prefer? Well, in which where the people bringing the case have, like, the burden to prove it, rather than the judges having the freedom to decide? Okay, firstly, we think that is much easier to to access, like, greater support at the point of, like, bringing that case. We think there is a lot of there is a lot of international support at the case of which, like, there is fair, strong, international, particularly Western liberal, support for a certain case, right? What? What does this look like? This means there is likely to be like when someone's human rights, say, say, a journalist in the rhino shop, we think there's, there's generally a fair amount of a national support, international support and grants. Well, i.e., there's a lot of backing. So this type of like resources, you need to prove this case. This looks like things like funding. This looks like things like research. This looks like things like lots and lots of journalists going about and asking the right questions and getting that evidence. And moreover, it isn't just about like funding and hard resources. It is simply it is also about the kind of like moral spirit and like and motivation behind it, right? You don't feel like it on your own, when you have this kind of groundswell of opinion. Secondly, we think it's much more sympathetic. You're going to have a lot more support domestically improving your claim, even if, if you're like so say you're like a minority, and most of the kind of elites and middle class aren't going to particularly feel sympathetic. They're going to be fairly detached from your claim, like you're bringing against the court, right? What's the comparative? Hymn? Okay, on their side, there are competing rights that the government that people have to weigh off. IE, it's much easier for like, the people who may support the minority or may go the government's way, to go the government's way, when they are faced with excessive propaganda and funding against that right, because they have their thing to oh, I'm moral. I think there's like this other right, which I think is more important, right? But what's the comparative here? Right? Um, if, if there, if you don't have this competing rights, if you have this recognition of right to justice, that things conflict, but that means that there is, there is generally a right answer, but you just have to prove it. At the point at which you can prove it, then you're much more likely to get that sympathy problem, you're much more likely to get that grandchild of support, but you wouldn't otherwise, because those people who are more like people are ambivalent, are much more likely to feel sympathetic to your cause. And why is this so important? Right? Because we think in many countries, many countries, many, many countries with like, bigoted governments, with oppressive governments, we think that they they want to co op that middle class or that upper middle class, right? And we don't think that those those people are necessarily absolutely in support of the government. We think they are often fairly reasonably self interested. We think they like care about keeping themselves. They see keeping themselves like keeping themselves in a good position, like economically and politically. They care about keeping that country like fairly running quite well. So if they think that the government is like able to squash something, if they think it's probably reasonably morally right and they are able to ignore it, they are likely to go that way. But if they don't think so, if they are, if they think that, if they, if they if they think it is wrong, they are much more likely to be persuaded to start vocalizing support for such movements, right? And what does this mean? This doesn't have to be a lot, because we think that oppressive governments generally will, will kind of will make concessions, because it's quite expensive to like, oppress people. It's quite hard. So if you have this kind of support group molding, then you're much likely to get this change. Thank you. I'd like To my speech there.
</dpm>

<dlo>
I find it interesting that opening government seems to think that the fact that on our side of the house a judge is going to have to be the one trading off various rights is somehow an argument for their side of the house. I do not think tin could have been any clearer that in situations where it is very obvious which party is wrong and which party is in the right, which party has a claim and which one does not, on both sides of that laws, the process is going to look quite similar. Tina has been also crystal clear that the reason why we believe the Bill of Rights is important is because the rights. Should be upheld and should be irrelevant, even in cases where that does not turn out to be the most important right. And I think this is the crux of the debate, because yes, opening government is right on our side of the house. What happens is the judge trades off two different rights on their side of the on our side of the house, the verdict is going to be something along the lines of, in this particular case, one right trumps the other, because you have to decide one way or the other. However, that does not eliminate the fact that the right that does not come out on top is still a right that exists and should be respected in practice that's most often going to look like some things, like if you have to pay damages, maybe you pay less damages if you still get convicted for manslaughter, maybe we'll know what you do with self defense, and even though you technically did still kill someone, we want people to feel moving forward, still feel comfortable to act in self defense, because that is something that they have the right to, even if the right does not protect them from all consequences in all cases, what happens is that moving forward, you can keep relying on that right, even if that right is not a get out of Get Out of Jail Free card. But secondly, it also probably means, in practice, you get some sort of reparations, minimize punishment, whatever. On site government, what they have to stand for is that you don't have a verdict that acknowledges two sides both have the right to something, but someone has to come out on top. There is one sense of justice that has to be defined, and one thing has to be just and the other one has to be unjust, because otherwise it doesn't make a difference whether you appeal to justice or to rights, right. So if the problem of government is that whites are too unspecific, that's just ridiculous, because they want to rely on precedent entirely. It's so much easier to argue that whatever precedents have been set all do not apply to this case on what is justice, because there is one detail that maybe matters that changes the understanding of justice, that changes the nuance of the social context in which this happens, that then might mean the Justice might look differently in this case versus the others. It's much easier to rely on rights that are inalienable, that have very Salish precedents where those rights are something you can rely on, even in cases where maybe they're not the most important thing. So to the extent that we care about protecting people, we should care about giving them one the avenue in which they can rely they most reliably can have rights that will be acknowledged in courts as valuable regardless of the outcome, but also to where they feel that those have the rights. And I'm going to deal with that later in more depth, right? But also like, Oh, gee. Said, like, ah, but courts want to maintain objectivity. Like, if that is the case, that's going to be the case on both sides of the house, and there's no point in changing, right? Because if courts want to maintain objectivity and be fair to everyone, they're also uphold to the Bill of Rights in a fair way. But also, here's the thing, gun rights are upheld in the US, not because of, you know, it's a right that's inalienable. You can still change a Bill of Rights right, probably you would even be able to do that. The problem is that you have very, powerful gun lobbies. And then everything that is up for debate in the US, rather than something that is enshrined, is politicized as fuck to the point of becoming dysfunctional, right? So on the idea of like, institutionalizing oppression, which is somehow something that OG thinks goes for them, I'm unsure how having a very, very clear view that is very like I think everyone in the US knows what is in the Bill of Rights. I think if something really ridiculous would be in there, they would that would probably end up being changed, because society would not stand for it, right? Good luck scrutinizing every single president that a court might rely on from the last, I don't know how many, at least 300 years, right? And good luck having most citizens join like most citizens don't even know the majority of cases in front of the Supreme Court. I'm unsure why, at the moment where the majority of the decisions in force in the legal courts are going to be to things like amorphous, vague precedents that are being set, where someone is going to be able to scrutinize that what is the burden of proof? Because OG seems to think it's easier to change society. It's not about what society thinks, because we don't have, I hate to go for the buzz word, but we don't have epistemic access of an aggregated view of the entirety of society, and not just their their general view, but also the nuances in each specific situation of the what they would prefer, which means that what we go on is not like the general what society wants and society teams toward, tends to being progressive, but how society expresses that, but does it express it through things like whoever has the strongest and the loudest lobby is going to win? There's probably a majority of society in the US who wants abortion rights and things that probably women should have autonomy of their over their body. It's just that the people trying to to get rid of abortion are louder, have much money, have much political power. The more things are up for debate in this way, the worse the race to the bottom of politicizing everything, grabbing power, disenfranchising minorities from voting all of the things get. Because the more you have to gain if you do those things, the more you have this incentive the more money gets into politics, so the harder it is for you to reach the threshold where you can pump enough money into the liberal causes for you to be able to match the Koch brothers or Elon Musk or whoever the puck is pushing dumb right? I've already talked about how people can't be expected to follow every single case that is going to happen. So whatever Reliance you want to have on public scrutiny gets a million times worse when it relies entirely on precedence, where you might have to know 100 precedents to decide which one of them is going to be more likely this particular interpretation of justice than just. This right is inalienable. How do we trade it on with something closing, 

<poi>
uh, most of the basic rights you're talking about are something you can't influence most people to agree with that? Why is it like? 
</poi>

Yeah, look, Dana's made it clear that if something is super intuitive and uncontested, it's probably going to be uncontested on both sides of the house, however, things like, Do we care about whistleblowers, or is it something that endangered national security? Is something that comes up relatively often, every few years, right? That's the kind of thing where I'm unsure why courts and the government would give a shit about the Justice right of one individual to be able to spill state secrets so they claim are horrendous, unless there is something that forces them to acknowledge that no matter the situation you have, the right whistleblower free speech or whatever it is, second process matters. I've already touched upon why how things are perceived definitely influences the amount of scrutiny that can exist, right? I come from a vaguely functional democracy in Romania, and still, because of the fact that there's an expectation that policemen are going to be corrupt and that courts are going to be corrupt if you go against someone with money, you don't even bother with it, right? We see that happening even in the US, where women don't really bother going after sexual assault cases if they don't think they can win on their side of the house. Not only do you have the problem that in the contested things where people of color already don't trust police don't trust putting the decision in the hands of the state, but on top of the fact that you have a hybrid of proof, you not only need to prove what happened, you also need to prove that is justice that makes it harder for everyone. It makes it worse for all human rights. Proud to close.
</dlo>

<mg>
constitutional rights are a measure of last resort when the state and steroid oppress you, meaning, for you to be able to challenge them, to defend yourself, you have to go outside the compliance of the state. You cannot use that on individual rights are the qualified way in which the state perceives for running. I want to talk about three things. Firstly, qualifications from why a lot of all these out this debate. Secondly, why institutions like constitutions are not progressive, not changing the principle now, pre qualifications that take opening COVID out of this bill. First, constitutions are constitutional. Courts are a major request result. They're not local courts and they're not local legislations about not stealing, not killing people, not including their private poverty. They're taken in ways in which, firstly, some affluence, you are very humanity, or Secondly, quasars in which the whole society is affected, for example, rights of minority communities that can be systematically disopressed. Secondly, there's a massive difference between a case in the Constitutional Court and in local courts. Like firstly, very few are cases not so much time pressure, and you have much more time to make a decision. This is why decisions take multiple weeks. Secondly, you have to do an extensive report on why you have done this, and you have to justify every single day that you've actively done. Thirdly, it's not a random Polish judge that is taking that decision. It is multiple constitutional judges that, firstly, supposedly the most qualified within society. Secondly, give much more public pressure, and certainly because. Is also class action lawsuits. There's a massive pressure for them to be objective. Or, thirdly, they have different biases which cancel themselves are or this just is necessity for them to justify themselves to one another. Meaning, there's massive difference between random Polish bias judges in cases, in constitutional judges, constitutional judges, that they a few decisions a year at most. Are extensive amounts of time to do them and have massive public scrutiny outside of this now, later. Now, what is the constitution? Why is the constitution, firstly, inherently wrong in many cases, I would say there are a lot of issues that are supposedly that are supposed to be individual rights that are currently not qualified in many countries, this is abortion, gay rights, reparative rights for indigenous communities, or, for example, positive, positive rights, for example, the right to UBI the right to social welfare, the right to education, like there isn't, by the way, an individual right to food in America, even though this is supposedly very progressive, this is so because, firstly, previously, there was a bigger asymmetry between the people in The state and the state wanted to perpetuate its power. Perpetuate its power. But secondly, because certain social issues that exist today just didn't exist or were massively oppressed previously, for example, women, I would say that less than us, in some cases, they exist to some way, but are presented to the lens of the previous people that are dominating society. For example, in Bulgaria, you have the right to manage right, but the right to manage is qualified as the right between a man and a woman to marry, meaning they either don't exist or are qualified in specific ways that necessarily oppress. Secondly, why, even if society is changing something that OG doesn't prove the qualification within the Constitution doesn't change our legal fight. So multiple reasons as well. This is the case. The first which in many cases, those are minority issues, which means that, if parties are negative, monitarian just not a pressing issue for them. The second reason is that in many cases, there is an insufficient amount of political capital for you to do this. Why is that the case? Because many, in many parliaments, in liberal democracy, for example, or in developing issues, there is a lot of polarization. You don't have a secure majority. Secondly, you have a finite amount of political favors, which means you want to prioritize other things. Or third, in many cases, there are much more pressing things for you to have to extensively do. For example, the fixing the economy, legislation on healthcare or education, instead of focusing on constitutional rights, which means in the vast majority of cases, it is complete. But second, it is very problematic for you to change the constitution, because, firstly, in many cases, the Constitution is massively qualified. Let's say, for example, the American Constitution, in which whenever you want to change something, it triggers right wing arguments about it being a slippery slope. They're going to change this right. They're going to change the second right or second. It triggers the psychological Fauci of people to be riskable, to be resistant, to be resisted, to change, which generally means that you have insufficient sovereign political capital, even if it doesn't say this is why this policy is necessary. Finally, let's get to the point. Let's talk about the principle we completely agree with opening opposition in that there are different moral and cultural contexts. They say that they exist. They never just they never justify as to why we have to actually ignore them all together. I want to positive two claims, the first which is that morality is inherently subjective. Not only does it change over time, but it changes on the cultural to cultural basis and on individual to individual basis. Why is this trivially true? Because people have different moral intuitions. People have different lived experiences. People live in different environments, which generally means that if we don't have like, what was the fantasy, paperwork, epistemic acts, the preferences of other people, and we all have our own moral individual perceptions. This necessarily means that morality is inherently subjective. Sure, we leave some conclusions and qualify them, but they're necessarily qualified but by people with their own irrational, subjective perceptions of what morality ought to be. I'll take you later on, meaning that in some cases, some people believe the right to chemical is a right to self defense. Other belief it is not right because it includes other consent of people not people not to be violent attacked. Secondly, many people believe that taxation is dead. Other people actively believe that they entitled to that because the prerequisite polish, and this is why they should have UBI and social welfare, which means cautious on rights are inherently subjective. What is the issue in the status quo? The state mandates what is not right and what isn't a right, which means that, firstly, it is a blanket policy that is homogenized as morality, or whatever the physical world is, again, and secondly, it is a top down approach. It's not a bottom up approach, meaning what the state imposes a right is retained as a right. We massively change this, because every single person is you have a different conception of what morality is, if it is crucial to their self flourishing, for example, capacity to collect rights to other people, to protect their indigenous rights, necessarily means they can exercise the right to what a good life is, but also to defend themselves against the state. Before I continue I will take both openings.

<poi>
Maria SPI to Miri explicitly suggest that the values we converge upon are quite intuitive, which makes your principle relatively uncomparative, but it's also very good mechanism. Is why the Bill of Rights will be reasonable. Of Rights will be reasonable on our side, then what becomes comparative are the five mechanisms where it's easier to make your case on our side therefore fulfilling your more prerogative.
</poi>

In your site, in some case, in your site. In all cases, judges don't defer to subjective interpretations of morality because they care for their legal COVID In our side, even if they're engraved social rights. At least you can make one argument that could persuade some justice that asymmetry is not huge, because, let's be fair, this debate is about two cases a year, but at least it exists. But secondly, I don't care the principles. It exists, irregardless of practical considerations. And this is why it's important. Secondly, let's talk about state power like this is favorite document if we believe that the right to change the government and to control the government is prior to everything else because you don't consent to the government, because it has asymmetrically more power to you. That this necessarily means that we must give you the tools to control that state. The problem is in the status quo, the two the tools to which you control it are state defined right the state defined what morality is and what individual rights exist. Meaning, irrespective of practical considerations, you should give you the tools to defend yourself, to defend your own perception of morality. And here I want to give a very, very like, okay, intuition. Any you in the status quo, you cannot. You can vote for whatever candidate you want, right? You can just write up an empty ballot. Can write for whatever policy you want. You will not confine a specific economic and political policies by specific candidates, meaning you're given the freedom, even if it's Not necessary on all those grounds, i propose.
</mg>

<mo>
Okay one point of miscellaneous extra bubble to closing government, and then I'm going to spend the vast majority of my speech on the extension. So first they say that effectively, we don't have enough political capital to implement rights. And then they give a lot of mechanism as to why it's difficult to amend these types of Bill of Rights over time, etc. The first observation I make is that if the population doesn't have the political capital to amend something in the Bill of Rights, then probably it isn't a strong enough democratic belief of that population to actually implement it in the Bill of Rights. It's totally unclear on what values they're saying, like, why you're going to get, like, all of these really, really nice changes. And B speaking of really nice changes, I don't think they've proven that justices are going to be changing good things on net, other than saying that, like elite judges in Poland are particularly well educated, and that seems nice, I don't think they respond to the characterization that these judges are not Democratic, that they might be subject to regulatory or to capture from political parties like in the United States, where you have super conservative judges passing Awesome like terrible things, right? I think that's the main point. And then, like all of the other things I have in terms of democracy, are going to clash with that relatively directly. The first thing I want to extend on is trust in institutions, and why this is so important, and why a right to justice would erode the trust in the institutions, as opposed to a codified Bill of Rights. Why is that? The first thing to note here is that people are going to perceive this right to justice as less democratic than a Bill of Rights. Why is that the case a they literally just are right like note that when you have a bill of rights that was voted on by like a large body of people when they were making this type of constitution right, these are people that are more accurately reflecting the democratic will. You can vote on the individual laws. You can vote to amend these types of laws, as opposed to in the other type of system, you don't have influence over those judges beyond like a very highly removed democratic process where maybe you can nominate those judges over time, it's significantly less democratic in actuality, and as a result, people have the ability to see that. But secondly, note that rights enshrined in the Supreme Court are inscrutable and unclear when they are under one umbrella of justice. For example, in a public conversation, I can point to the right, the fact that I have the freedom of speech or the right to bear arms versus if we only have the right to justice, then I say actually a Johnson versus Ferguson 1932 the Supreme Court justices enshrined this as an interpretation of our right to justice. And thereby, I think I have access to this thing, right? It's far less tangible for the average person in order to grip it when they're having these types of conversations, and then see it's less representative, right? So we are you picking out the most educated elite people in power of society and giving them comparatively more democratic power? Okay? Note, these aren't minor concerns, right? So if you say, oh, like a court changes, does this really like fundamentally, radically view people's change and how they perceive themselves their states in accessing their rights. Yes, we're talking about fundamental rights, which people are talking about here. We're talking about in every single political debate. When you go on TV and they say freedom of speech, right to a fair trial, this dominates your political discourse and informs conception of yourself as a citizen and what types of things are possible in the realm of. Public Discourse. One final thing to say about this point, even if they say, Ah, but we're doing this as a wood motion, and probably, like in weird meta debate rules, that means that there's probably some sort of like debate, like society wide context. When you go into this, even if you have wood Fiat right now, you don't have it into the future, and it's unclear why you're going to have it into the future. Giving these mechanisms that I've just given you, what are the impacts of this that happens in a few main respects, the first of which is political polarization and radicalization that occurs when people don't believe that they are represented by their states. So first of all, note that we already have seen trends of this in the status quo with things like Italy, France, etc. It's totally unclear that we are going to like be able to avoid this long terms. But note that these types of like, especially right wing narratives, but also left wing narratives, are uniquely empowered by elite capture narratives which are only further supported by this type of motion. The impact of this is that that's obviously bad for the implementation of rights, or like, like radical, bad, extremist policy which tramples over the rights of minorities, right, which, by the way, can happen independent of things, like outside of the court, right? So you can not only pass laws which are particularly restrictive, but also in terms of people's overall perception towards minorities, but also, like, independent of actual conception, independent of actual conceptions. We think it's like, not not democratic right. But also note that it's like much slower to act if there's a political disagreement at the point where you have a higher amount of polarization and disagreement in society. IE, a lot of situations are kind of like value neutral, in the sense that if you just need to build growth and build healthcare relatively quickly, or respond to a type of crisis or respond to a war, we have more effective on the comparative political machinery at the point where you have buy in. But B note that this isn't just like super developed countries. We're also talking about nascent states where, like democracy as a whole, and faith in democratic institutions is really, really, really important, and you want to get people to buy into these and it's extraordinarily risky at the point where you don't have buy in into that political project. And we could get authoritarian backsliding in these type of states. That's another massive impact. They're potentially disenfranchising people if there's authoritarian backsliding. But see, finally, trust in society to begin with. That is to say you need to believe in your institutions. In the court, you're more likely to pay taxes, you're less likely to be corrupt, you get more civil engagement. This is good for society as a whole. Right note that that empowers the rights of democracies and make it so that people have better lives. Secondly, I want to expand on democracy as a principle, because I think tin gives this nice state power principle, and I think it's valid and fair in the room, but it's unclear by like the courts specifically, are insufficient to protect your rights against the state, right? What we actually need in this debate is a prioritization of why we need to maximize democratic participation in the court system, right? And so it doesn't go far enough, right? It's valid. But what you need to do is actually show why democracy in itself is good. Why is that a because people express their preferences their best, and everyone has their own conception of what they're good, of what the good life is, right? We don't know that, but B and we can't judge between the value of people, right? So we have to assume that everyone is roughly equal, because everyone has their own unique experiences and life events that they're drawing from. And given the fact that we can't meaningfully decide between those two, we should prioritize to giving everyone a vote and expressing their own preferences, and when we do that, it's much better that we prioritize a system where people have more direct control over the types of rights which are made as opposed to a highly arbitrary right to justice system, which is actually what CEO is arguing for, despite knocking finally, at this point about like The long arc of history, right? So we get this point from Oh, where they say these are nice because they're modeled after Western constitutions and, like, post conflict states. Here's additional analysis, a when constitutions are made, there are unique historical circumstances of constitute and like, it's a constitutional movement. That is to say you need buy in from all parties, right? So even if your country is relatively new and has a majority group. You still don't want to have a separatist group, particularly like regional separatist groups, which is why we often have a huge amount of concessions and overall, like fine treatment of everyone in society in order to get the buy in and order to get the first level of the Constitution to happen. B, you have some sense of political unity and optimism of making an equitable new society right. And no, if you can't just brush this off by saying, like, narratives aren't important. Aren't important, narratives are incredibly important in terms of influencing action. See every single school curriculum debate in post conflict societies, because the beliefs that people have inform what they do. But C, even if it's not objectively good, they are minimally democratic enough that they reflect the will of the people in order to get enough buy in at the time that they are created. D finally, we say that rights, most of the times, are protection from what the governments can do. They are not actively oppressive. They guarantee freedoms, and that's worth protecting. Please, I oppose.
</mo>

<gw>
I think what their argument essentially says is, oh, this society will not perceive this as an actual protection of rights. Therefore people distrust the government or not feel represented. I want to close in a few things. Firstly, not that they already say, but it's, oh, basically, it's hard to amend those constitutions. It's like, if people are not strong enough to change those laws, then the laws probably should not exist. But this is fucking ridiculous. We already proved to you there are literal constraints in terms of the bureaucracy that occurs for you to be able to change those laws? Okay? Firstly, there are a lot of requirements for you to be able to call the Supreme Court to be able to change a certain constitution. The reason for this is exactly because of what they close it. Constitutions are glorified to an extent that it's believed that they shouldn't be meant that. Secondly, though people not very regularly stick to the text in particular. Why? Because they glorify, for example, the founding fathers that created their country and protected their liberty, and it all those things. And so they're inherently very like, protect the text, the same way religious people are stick to the text of like the Bible. But why is this extremely harmful? Is the reason that people are very risk averse in changing those constitutions, because they deem it as something that will change the worlds of their whole country or generally, that they seem as something that's morally wrong, since you believe those founding fathers that what society should exhibit in most part, however, though I think the last thing that we need to look is that in here, very litigations, very lengthy processes that are overlooked for 1000s of years, societal opinion supported the reason why God people are not able to walk it was because of the litigation that you have to vote for and all, for example, for you the previous constitution and improve the legitimacy of the new thing that you want to support. I think this is inherently more accessible to most people in a change that you believe but few represent. I would say only two things. One, if all people and all their rights are presented by this notion, there's always people who presume to be believing as true. It's not as if some people are just going to have the right to justice and other one have the basic cool rights that opposition won't stop about. I think this generally shifts the perception that people have rights in the status quo. But secondly, though I am not sure why this is something more important than what previously grew, because what we do essentially say is that the moral society change over time. The reason why we are okay with having a state limiting our individual rights is because we supposedly have a state like power to recourse against them or not generally, we can express what we believe to be morally true. Laws are created to create to follow the current moral views of society, and if no moral views are sending that, we are able to change more effectively. That is prison policy is more important as it allows more people to access the dignity of controlling what happens in their life on an everyday basis. This is far more important than a few people not distracting the government in a way that I'm not sure what will actually happen, opening opposition. I want to pause a few things here. Firstly, what constitution be done? Well, I think what they're only announced is saying, Oh, you follow the West because you want to join our international organization. This simply that you do well, not those constitutions most of the time, are followed by very versions of the Western institution. But they won't that the West has continued to change in constitution. The Balkans and all of the regions come because they're very risk averse and are likely to have problematic virtues, particularly tissues are very vague, and if judges are out, but they want to prove to you, the judges can interpret the debates in a way that support them. I think this is fairly symmetrical on early though. What I asked, in my view, is that some rights are whether this might be you should have right to privacy or you should have control over your life. However, these debates about the rights of their not important to most people and that are dependent on the kind of moral relativity that you talk about not make yourself safe in university, presumably, we are okay with not supporting... Meeting that you allow, right now something very important view beast for you go into the court and act by people to be something that you do not deserve, such as to be excused of murder because you have to act. It's now dependent. It's something that's extremely important for the most important to have any protection in that regard. 

<poi>
Look, it's hard to change constitution, but even harder to understand and change entire web of precedence, despite people in Croatia changing the constitution to define marriage as men and a woman, people distrusting the government means that even if you get a better system, they don't profit from it, because they don't trust the court to go.
</poi>

Okay, but they don't distrust it right now, when something that they deem as their individual right is not within the Constitution, and if you actively annihilated and disregarded from society in a way that doesn't allow them to access the good of life that you suppose. Now let's deal with specific instances. One they say you have better protection of rights. And I want to to ask a few things. Well, why likely that the society that they talk about will disregard... it hurts people. I am not sure you want to write the privacy i am not sure... wait what... says there are certain rights that she Behold, no matter if society believes in them, I think, for the ones that are very always how to behold, or something that will do this regardless, what we even say On our side is better, because... not being reflected. I think that's fine, because we've done difficult... to reflect people's words at that time those people do not reflect that currently, we're going to justify because it's the only way for people to be able to access all dignity and freedom that they're supposed to be having. In that regard, you said to the secrets of art, you are still able to control yourself dignity in a way you live your life. Lastly, though, I want to just rebut a few things about why judges are not as bad. I think, firstly, most of that was mister said, are likely going to be the most educated ones. But certainly they were likely to be who could have escaped the bomb regimes and that go to the west, get educated, have certainly good views. The problem right now is that even if they want to vote in your favor that you know for some point, they want to vote for damage constitution that you have. Lastly, on on our openings, I think, firstly, the what we mechanized better than there is a white constitutions that are unlikely to change, or very hard to change in a way that it's hard for people to access their rights and the things that they deem morally important. But secondly, I think we far better prove the principles to what if you have certain perception of what is morally correct and what is something that you as a person, have a right to, that you should have the ability to defend this even you do not succeed, because it's a way for you to activate either provoke discussion about this topic. We're safe looking at this that you try to predict something that you deem morally important to you. I think this is far more than the more important the way that, if you do not currently are able to exercise your perception of what is modeling right and what you should have at the right in your life, then this is something far more important than how did it impact you? Maybe a sales pitch for That. We'll pause.
</gw>

<ow>
throughout the entirety of the Second World War, and like the Nazi regime in Germany, the Constitution that was officially in for in power was the constitution of the Weimar Republic that gave like legal protections such as freedom of speech and association. Obviously those were not followed in that time period. What is the point I'm making here? What is written in a constitution is not as relevant as what people are buying into and the rights that people believe exists in the state, and that is where extension comes in, right? We're saying is to, first of all, one piece of framing and why that makes our institute, our extension. The most impactful thing this debate does. This debate is not about specific legal decisions for individual people, but what people perceive to be the rights that are the Constitution and a lot of direct, robust comparison, comparison to your issues. Constitutional cases take like forever, right? Constitutional cases are usually like regress once something is already happened. The row in Roe versus Wade never actually got the abortion that she fought the case for, because by the time the decision was made, she already given birth, right? What does this mean? This means, I think, this debate is not necessarily about the things that happen in the courtroom, specifically, whether people specifically can be like, can be given right or wrong in the court. I think this particular thing about this faith is what Braden talks about, is where people buy into rights existing and rights being a thing, and therefore changing the understanding of morality we have in the society at large and in public, appeal to certain to these certain rights. Right we talk about opening up. It started with opening up, reducing logic, opening governments say two main things. First of all, this right of justice is more responsive to societal movements and changes of the opinions in society. Four responses to that. First of all, this assumes that constitutions move incredibly slowly, and it's largely based on the idea that the United States Constitution never, like very other changes. The reason why it's the case was the United States Constitution is one of the most terribly designed political documents in the world. Like I can literally just counter example and say, like, Switzerland changes constitution about three times a year. Ireland does it every few years. I don't understand why that's true. But then B, we think judges are less likely to follow societal movements, because judges are generally decoupled from society to certain extent. Right? Judges usually are not as much in the public focus. Judges usually don't face re election pressures. Definitely a fewer incentives to actually go along with with like popular opinion, like an activist junction has a certain ideology is much more likely to be ruling with little accountability than, like a whole political body that can change a constitution thirdly. But again, like emergency cases where the Constitution and public opinion are really decoupled, that still gets addressed north side of house, right? Like Braden tells you it is poi to opening up about how, like Roe v Wade was constructed on like, multiple interpretations of the Constitution that can still happen in our side of housing. It's genuinely so hard to change that constitution. Thirdly, but fourthly, sorry, I think we flipped this point. We're saying that when we have this point of this discussions about changing constitution, these rights are like elaborated more in the public discussion and more on true democratic process, you have more buying. You have more acceptance, and more acceptance of the societal movements on the legal sphere. I'll take you in a second. Then second thing they say is you get better justice for minorities in particular, they assume that this justice ideal is more objective than their skills rights. We don't understand why right by their own acceptance from the DPM is usually a trade off of rights. It's completely unclear why, a situation where both people are claiming their justice has been violated in a certain way, they're going to rule in favor of the minority. Right. Look at when someone is saying that their justice has been violated because they have been, like, exploited, on on against the law, and someone says that their justice has been violated, they haven't been able to, like, follow economic freedom. We don't know why a judge is not just going to sign as the economic freedom on it, right? But if, finally, you also just think that is, even if it's true that you get worse, even if it's true that you get worse, you bet better results in the courtroom. Specifically, we don't necessarily think this matters when this is unlikely to be pushed on like a more broader scale and not an enumerated right you can point to and create public pressure outside the court of saying, I should have this right to freedom of speech, I should have this right to freedom of assembly. I should have this right to whatever right it is, because we think that when this case is more likely, that it's just going to be ignored in the broader population, right? Because most people cannot constantly litigate because, like, going to the courts is really expensive. It takes a lot of time. That means a lot of people, even if the court might rule in their favor, if they were to go to court, might still just abstain from doing things that are contentious, because they don't know whether the courts are going to rule their favor, and therefore people are still not going to dare to exercise their freedom of speech when they don't know for sure whether they don't actually have the backing of the court. Now we'll take opening.

<poi>
Yeah, under rubbish. It was struck down because my new constitutional texture was details. This seems to prove our point that instead, it should be endorsing general societal rights. We understand that abortion is okay. This constitution can't protect these things. 
</poi>

I'm completely unsure why. Like six Republican justices, they're all voted for striking down Roe versus Wade would rule in favor of abortion near side a house near never explained why they would all right. Moving on to closing government. Closing government. Tell me that laws should reflect morality of society. Laws that right should reflect the like morality of society and like the moral subjectivity of society. I'm very, very unclear why there is a point in favor of those things being decided relatively arbitrarily by a judge, rather than by a political process that involves multiple members of society and basically as many people as possible, right? We completely agree with this characterization, this principle. We think that brings you a lot of analysis of why when you have democratic, democratic processes. Sorry, English, hard, but if democratic processes that are going to be that are enshrining constitutional rights through deliberation and discussion in a whole society, you're much more likely to actually reflect all society in that process, right? Whereas on their side of House, is much more likely that judges are going to decide in a somewhat biased way, because buy it, because judges are more likely to come from like the same groups, because only certain groups of society are likely to actually like go to law school and make a massive legal career, even if you're not from these groups, once you are going through this person, you probably have assimilated. You're being more upper class. You're being more educated, etc. Therefore, the thing is, more likely that the vast array of moral Viewpoints is acknowledged when you have this democratic persons in place, finally weighing up against opening opposition. We think that, first of all, they're talking about these troubled states, right? We think in these threats particularly, it is probably not that important what the decision in the courtroom is going to be, because even if, like, a judge is going to say, yeah, you buy the Constitution, actually do have a right to be gay, that probably does not stop the average conservative Polish person that inherits rights from being homophobic towards you, right? Because it's unclear why, in a situation where you don't have that bind and only brain analyzes why it happens more on our side of house, people are actually going to like, respect your rights, rather than still just tread on them and hope they don't get litigated against. prior to proposed.
</ow>