<pm>
We are currently living in unprecedented economic times where despite a crippling war and a brutal pandemic, energy companies have emerged victorious. Opening government is going to wrap it for this and make the world more fair. I was, I'm going to start by describing what these policies look like and then talk about two things. Firstly, what this leads to: a lot more money for governments and why that money is good. In Sacramento, this is, it's the process of diversification. What do these policies currently look like? We're talking about windfall tactics that currently exist in countries like the UK, where a portion of the profits that companies are making, which occur during periods of high energy taxes, are being taxed for handsomely. And we support the continuation of this process. Note the policies and how they exist are also combined with tax incentives for investment in green energy as well.
 
We support the continuation of that trend. First claim: why is more money a force for good? I want to characterize why there's just a lot more money going to governments rather than just a small piece of cake. The first reason for this is that we have to acknowledge the mass amounts of profits that were made during the initial stages of the war in Ukraine. Oil was literally selling for over 120 dollars a barrel, which is really double what it was selling a few years before. What this means is that profits were so excessive that the net budgets of these companies are extremely large. Secondly, in countries that have energy sectors and are producing industries, these companies are massively profitable. Oil is often a large portion of GDP, but even aside from that, we're talking about some of the richest companies in the world. Literally, Exxon bio, by some estimates, has made over 300 billion dollars a year. These are larger than entire sectors and entire industries that these states literally have.
 
Maybe that only a minor increase in taxation results in a cumulatively large amount of money given the sheer power of these companies. Why are these policies good? Firstly, on a humanitarian level, it is very important to recognize the context which the currency of taxation is existing under. Governments are incredibly fiscally stressed. Even before the invasion of Ukraine, the COVID pandemic meant that businesses shut down, and a lot of state money had to be spent on measures supporting small businesses and had to be spent on supporting households. The invasion worsened all of these trends by increasing the price of energy, which also created streams but also formed export and supply chains that ultimately existed as a consequence of this. 

There are two observations: the first that governments need more cash in order to support their social safety nets, spending more money on the welfare state, the fact that small businesses still have lingering harms from the pandemic, and they're going to need increased degrees of support. But secondly, about lowering the harms of austerity policies as well and decreasing the necessity for them in the first place. Governments currently apply your debt to GDP ratios that they did before, so having an increase in funding is inherently stabilizing in terms of their ability to tap into international credit markets by lowering the perceived risk of investing with these states. Overall, they only do like Nissan money but got things like lower interest rates and they can just spend more money. I think policies can offset from the Department mandated austerity policies that are ultimately existing under.
  
I want to note here that the redistributions are only utilitarianly practical, but it's also a moral necessity as well. I want to note that we don't think energy companies have any more claim to wealth that was that was accrued during arbitrary circumstances than more than the average citizen does within these contexts, given that there is no way to morally distinguish the worth between citizen and therefore we all redistribute this money in a way that maximizes the quality of life for the average person rather than rewarding those who are arbitrarily placed in a position of privilege. The second reason why more money is something that's so crucial is that it would get better energy policy specifically. Yes, some money is going to other things like supporting the social safety net, but a lot of money that's generated for women is explicitly used to maintain both positive energy for the average citizen within these states, specifically being combined with price caps. 
 
So governments are basically having price caps and having lower degrees of energy that are funded by these schemes, and the unique ability to sustain these schemes comes from energy taxes. This is for two reasons: firstly, all of the framing about fiscal stress that I explained to you earlier means governments don't have a myriad of alternative revenue sources that they're able to tap into. There is a really essential revenue source for them to sustain things like price caps and energy. Secondly, though, the high interest rate environment that we currently exist under is the also the cost of inflation means that it is part of the governments to take loans to otherwise give this kind of policy because we have to spend more money from those loans on interest payments. What this means is that we are necessary in sustaining policies for cheaper energy. This is important for a few reasons: firstly, it is beneficial for individual citizens' quality of life. You can literally afford to access heating in the winter rather than getting pulled. 
  
Secondly, it's essential for businesses as well to use energy within their own production, paying therefore it can produce cheaper goods. But thirdly, most importantly, this is about sustained political will for sanctions and harsh measures against Russia. The world is currently standing behind Ukraine, but eventually, people are going to get tired when they're becoming warm and when they're struggling to heat their homes. Having the ability to have sustained measures for cheap energy is a vital political tool in order to make it politically viable to get the same tough measures against Russia. This is crucial because as a war reaches more of an equilibrium period where they're going to begin their spring offensives, this gives a blast of changing more leverage over Russia, and things like sanctions and policies are remaining in place, putting that a negotiated settlement is likely to be more favorable towards Ukraine.  
For a given, per second argument about diversification, i will take that 

<poi>
look, we're obviously not going to argue that it's great to produce companies to profit as much as they can. What we are going to argue is that this is not the best way to stop the profits, which by the way push inflation even higher. The more you legitimize them raising their product,
</poi>

like how else do you stop profits? By taxing them. And if you're going to argue that there are other ways to stop profits, that literally looks like you were debating for proposition motion. This is direct, it is targeted, and it harms companies who are profiting the most. How do we get diversification? The first everything that I want to do here is why companies still have the money to diversify regardless. As an odd cannot make claims that these companies are not going to be financially stressed. 
 
The first trivial observation here is only a windfall tax on companies that are already profiting. We are taxing their profits; we are not taxing their revenues. Energy companies are financially strength, are not going to be subject toward a policy. But more than that, energy companies have large capital reserves. The first reason for this is that they just made a lot of money, just given that oil is basically an inelastic thing. People need energy in order to survive whenever demand code has been very high historically. But secondly, the kind of companies that we are discussing are going to be subjected to the windfall tax are the kind of companies who have the cheapest production. First, they occupy first-generation oil fields, which had the easiest extraction processes. But secondly, the production process has been equipped to benefit the most from economies of scale that exist under the status quo. So these properties are mathematical; you're just like reducing two of the megas in the mega. They're going to have the capacity to diversify regardless financially.
 
A lot of people higher incentive 200 or something of a house. This is for two structural reasons: firstly, we are shifting the relative profitability of different types of energy that companies are existing in. We can see that companies probably have a long run incentive to move into green energy regardless. This is nothing incentive for all energy companies on the other side as well. Why is it often seen as being riskier? It requires initial investment; they already have their oil fields. Remember, their marginal incentive is to tap into that. But given the fact that we're only taxing windfall profits from oil in particular, we are not taxing from renewables. The marginal incentive now becomes to shift into more sustainable forms of production to avoid being subjected to windfall taxes that are going to exist into the future, and therefore we get more diversification within that capacity.
 
Our second mechanism is, well, they get more diversification is that state regulation of companies becomes easier. No other has to be effectively create more competitive energy sectors to get larger companies who are the ones generating windfall profits, and they're going to be asymmetrically subjected to increased levels of taxation. Therefore, you're likely to reduce your bargaining power that ExxonMobil has relative to other companies. What this means is that it's more or less like that you're going to get political capture. You have the broadest energy companies effectively paying off state regulators to resist pushes in order to get more moves to bring energy. Overall, for all these reasons, I'm extremely proud to be opening government.
</pm>

<lo>
I want to quickly note that these oil companies and gas companies aren't just money widgets, right? They don't sit on their money. I think probably what you do with this money, like any other corporation, they probably redistribute in some form. That's to say dividends, payouts through stocks, all these sort of things that I think are good. And I think to some degree mitigate this principle of like these companies don't deserve arbitrary wealth. So I'm going to engage with that anyways. Okay, first argument on why this is just an acceptable range of volatility and one of them practically important. But let's just say that I think natural markets, especially oil markets, tend to go up and tend to go down, right? That is to say that you don't know which way is which. You, as a company, who've chosen to enter this industry have chosen to take on a significant level of risk, right? You could get screwed over by lower prices at some point, like has happened when it went negative, and you also get the benefit when it goes up.
  
What do I think that's important? Because I think when you have made a significant choice to invest your own capital when there are massive amounts of risk at the outlet, right? I think you deserve to have a privileged level of wealth at the end of it. What do I mean by this? Let's say you're an average individual, right? You study really, really hard, like go to a good university, and at the end, they say, "Ah, no university deserves that diploma because that's a special level of wealth, a special level of selection." I don't think that's how the principle works, right? Because these companies have made unique contributions and unique investments. I think you want to reward them for that risk. If they added—no thank you—if you haven't experienced the downfall, then I think they also deserve to experience the other ball, right?

Broadly, I think you have to accept from a certain level of person. I think in this way we can't distinguish between different levels, like different people, not just because they have different worths, but rather because they take on different levels of risk, different levels of investment. I think basically, like if you invest in something, you're going to pay out. That's pretty intuitive. But on the practical, right, why do I think it's really helpful here, basically on the competitions? Because I think currently there are very few emergent oil and gas companies for obvious reasons, right? High startup costs, all those sort of things. They're not really that much potential for new exploration in this field, but I do think that's it. No thank you. I think it's really quite useful for people who have more of these companies, right? For a reason, I'll explain in a moment.
 
The thing is, I think that in order to explore a new oil field or a new gas field, you need massive levels of potential return in order to make that worth your while, right? I think Naomi themselves say that it's a really, really high risk for companies to do this, and therefore you need to incentivize them with large payouts, right? You need access returns essentially, both to make it worth it. Here's a risk and secondly, just to finance the startup costs because it is not cheap to build a new oil rig; it costs a lot of money, so you need a lot of excess profits in order to do this. Why is it so important that we allow new companies and new merchants in this space for three reasons? Right? I think one, if you have more new companies and smaller companies entering the space because they no longer fear a windfall tax and have the like I'll call proper capacity to build new oil wells and things, that just increases competition, right? I think competition is a very good thing, and the goal of government is to lower prices and increase the accessibility of energy, but I think competition is a great way to do that, having more competitors.
 
No thank you. All over the price. But secondly, though, right? Also note that like you have people just like really need energy right now. I think it's a good thing to be able to offer them more of a good that, like when people cannot heat their homes in the UK or in certain parts of the US, I think it's a really, really bad thing. I think we do have some sort of obligation—I’ll give them more money—no thank you. And thirdly, by exploring new oil and gas fields, you just create more energy. You can be like, as in you increase the supply curve of energy, which is like innately going to lower the price. I think that makes it more accessible for all these reasons. I think that's a good thing. 
We're moving on. I'll take closing of the house. 

<poi>
The vast majority of these rainfall taxes do not apply to renewables. In the long run, people get cheaper energy that also doesn't kill the planet. 
</poi>

Okay, so I'm not—I’ll talk about renewables, my third argument, but basically, actually, I'll talk about my third argument. I'll plug that when I get to it. Awesome. Second argument on why I think governments are probably going to be pretty bad at spending this money and why if that's the counter fact that OG wants to argue on, don't think they lose this fit, right? Several reasons here. One, just because of like politically important constituencies. Obviously, I think we all know that governments don't make perfect spending decisions because USA government are politicians. You, as a politician, have one incentive—that's to win an election. How do you win an election? There are only three groups in any election, right? Those who are definitely going to vote for you, those who are definitely not going to vote for you, and those in the middle—the swing states, so to say.
 
I think that you, as a politician, are that intelligent, intelligently want to use off the money that you prove through this windfall tax on spending on these, like, arbitrary popular houses. Like, if you want to use all these analyses here, I think people deserve equal work, right? I think they deserve equal loss of money. So I don't see why it's fair in this case. To like arbitrarily give this group who just happens to have more diverse political beliefs arbitrary levels of money, but I also think it's really, really just bad, right? I don't think it's going to help solve a lot of the economic problems if a lot of the money that you're shoveling in isn't necessarily to solve economic problems or if you help them as needy, but rather just to help those who are arbitrarily in state populations, like in these sort of things.

Also note that because this is a particularly too much experience, I don't think there's a lot of government oversight right now, right? Especially because these are like quite opaque measures, like where you like do individual levels of government spending doesn't have a lot of oversight tracks. No one's looking where exactly the final budget is going. That's why I think there's also going to be—like sometimes we need people to have money; they don't do it. But secondly, I think governments are probably short-terminals for pretty intuitive reasons, right? Political incentives are unique to win the next election, which means that you're going to focus on trying to win the next election by spending accordingly, right? Let me say you're not going to invest more on my projects; rather, you're just going to invest in the short run, which makes it look good for your political populists who are then going to vote for you. No thank you.

What that means is, um, like on the comparative basically, right? Because obviously they can say, "Ah, but we don't turn the money in any good ways." Look, worldly, as I said earlier, this profit isn't just sitting in some bank account, right? It goes to people through dividends; it goes to people who stockholding; it goes to people through all these sort of things. One other thing that's better because I think regular people tend to make better spending decisions, right? Let's just say if you have a problem the government wants to solve. I failed to see what someone who is more approximating the problem and who has a greater knowledge of the problem cannot make you a better spending decision when they receive the money through their pensions, through their dividends, on how to resolve that problem if what they want to do is spread money to the populations. I think we do in a far more beneficial manner.

Moving on to my third argument, What profits are broadly helpful to people. I think this broadly like cautions exactly with what Naomi was saying. First argument here on like stabilizing portfolios. Because I think oil and gas is obviously like a really, really major resource that people tend to think is stable, tend to have like major investments from a lot of like a variety of funds, things like pensions, right? It's the fundamental basis of the economy. That's what I think, especially if you haven't ever find a portfolio, obviously you're going to use some of that investment to go into the energy space. What does that look like? It looks like, you know, holding these sort of stocks and mutual funds; it looks like pension funds investing in them; it looks like regular people, regular elderly people who are relying on it for their retirement to ensure that they get their dividend. Why is it so important then we don't impose a windfall tax? That's out of order because I think at this point you need to make sure these people who are relying on You too, like, have their livelihood basically made, don't have their problems really taken away from them, right? 
 
Also note that big clothing market is so volatile at this point. If you impose a windfall tax and if you continue building with both houses, I think that has like an outsized arm on like stock prices, right? Because people are panicking. That's going to cause like an overly sensitive decrease in like the price of stocks, which is probably a bad thing because these people are relying on it for their own well-being. I think it's a really bad thing to do. Finally, on green innovation, while we get better on our side, right? Broadly, I think these companies are probably going to invest in green innovation for a lot of the obvious reasons, right? Research and development is common. I think they know this is a dying industry. They eventually need to, like, transition to green if they want to survive. Secondly, there's this personal advantage, so each company wants to be doing this. And thirdly, like, we're increasingly incentivized by things like tax breaks, which are not inclusive, but I think happen on our side as well. They have a unique capacity to do this on our side because, one, you need larger levels of profit to get over the sort of levels of profit you need to pay out dividends. So we need them to expand into new massive levels of innovation. 
 
They're quite significant startup costs and require significant returns on risk, right? So, and then on our side, we get better levels of innovation by the companies who are uniquely qualified to do so. For all these reasons, so proud to oppose. 
</lo>

<dpm>
If this—why is this policy justified—which seems to be part of the pack we get from opening opposition? I would note several things. This thing would have claimed this acceptable volatility in prices. I just don't think this is true because it doesn't understand how energy companies actually operate. What would you do as an oil company when prices were very low? You don't simply provide energy or oil at that price; you instead store it. You store it in your barrels, you store it in your warehouses, and as a result, you put your prices further up. That is why these companies still make reasonable profits at all times, and they make supernormal profits at other times. 
 
In other words, what they are doing is that even in periods of low profitability or low prices, they are manipulating the market in order to ensure that they maintain the restore balance of profit and Just use the tuition club. That is exactly what OPEC or OPEC plus does. That isn't an energy company they say, but the same kind of thinking that you change the supply conditions and what you offer to the market during periods when prices are low. Secondly, why is this justified? We gave you three reasons which they never responded to this. We made a utilitarian claim, so there is no reason why these companies need that much anymore. No, there's no response to that. But secondly, it is unclear to me why they deserve higher profits just because of the random fact that the oil company with a license, which is granted their value to stay in a period of unprecedented crises, particularly these are the Russia and Ukraine. What is their moral right to be able to gain supernormal profits during those periods?
  
Thirdly, these are the companies which particularly don't deserve it because of the externalities of their behavior—someone to talk about later, some of the highlights, for instance, the pollution caused by the kinds of actions which are at places right now. If this is a reciprocal obligation, man, and we allowed to tax them more than other companies and ask those costs rights and the environmental cost lines, I don't think it's unreasonable, but it's going to limit their profitability. And if they really think companies have a god-given right to level profitability, they would have to believe you can't change corporation tax rates. Do they believe you can't have tax incentives? The same kinds of companies? Do they even do they even oppose, for instance, increasing the rate or taxing people to pay at the petrol pump, which would factor into reducing the profitability these companies make? 
 
Secondly, where does the money go? Now, we told you the money could be used in lots of areas, but what specific area? Well, lots of this money was used for—and I sort of gave you a little bit of a memory jog about a year ago—what was happening? Why did we introduce these caps? Why do we introduce these new taxes? It's because governments realize the number one issue voters were facing, whether you're on boat, is voters in the middle, was the price of energy. Only got thousands perfectly; it's about whether you can heat your home. That is the alternative issue for almost every single individual. But the word are the easy ways of being able to fund it, particularly them so obvious reasons, the fact of mass fiscal overhang, it's spent to go back from the COVID prices, the difficulty in actually getting affordable debt as interest rates continuously go up. That is why the energy price cap was one of the most important issues which you're going to focus on. 

The analysis the other side gives us convinces beyond just look, both a vote, you want to support your constituency. I think you probably also will get support from everyone, and those people in the middle and your constituency will care that energy price caps—and they say governments are short-term. Okay, if that is true, they spend money on edge of these price caps and reduce austerity. That's probably good. I don't think governments even are actual terrorist here, but they're fights. One of the reasons, if you think about a government, yes, you have a prime minister, a few people at the top; they want to ensure terms, but how about everyone else in that government? The person who wants to be still in politics 20, 10 years from now? There are other people in government who go, "I want to be prime minister." If my current—if the current conservative government said it's to totally ruin the economy as they were, that harms everyone else at the party and other important decision-makers in cabinet, and you probably can't even get it past a legislature. That's why governments aren't even as short-termist as they suggest. 
 
And let me just express the importance of this stuff that they didn't even decide to mention or engage with, which is it wasn't just beneficial because that helps consumers, but the impact of that was literally support for Ukraine and swore against Russia. It significantly impacts the ability and willingness of Europeans to continue, particularly Europeans, to continue to support that. But they otherwise could get cheaper energy, or they don't feel that they are having austerity imposed on them, and therefore they are less likely to demand very significant changes to policy. Now, I don't mean that they can change their support or lift all sanctions immediately—there's obviously a spectrum here. What that could easily mean is support for very rapid negotiations for reducing some of these sanctions, for not having other kinds of measures which would otherwise be advised—that is significant impact of this argument.

The final claim I would define the Political Banks, what happens in the law cap and there is two claims from the opposition here But this claim is we need these companies to make a huge amount of money so that they can get more oil or have more uh drill for more oil or gas. I don't think we actually want that, but there's a couple of obvious reasons. One is environmental, and we definitely don't want people to be putting more and more money into oil and gas—that's green tech. But secondly, let's just look at the analysis they give you, which is it is really useful that people have cheap sources of energy. That is not an argument for the oil rates, but you have to discover it. But the oilers start drilling and then market that—that's like a 10 to 50 year process, which probably doesn't lead to cheap oil right now. 

The stronger claim on this, which we've already talked about, is the impact of green tech and the changing incentives which companies actually face. There are a couple of things which we noted on this. Why once the logical change in incentives here? We know that you now have a greater risk of taxes; the money you're getting from oil, but a reduced set of taxes, at least comparatively, for money you get for green tech. That is because the way these policies were designed—just a common-sense reason—when these policies were implemented due to the economic conservatives, whether you're a barge the same department, you hey from the CDU of Germany, or even newspapers like the active Wall Street Journal looked at this problem, that if you just tax them, you don't have tax breaks, there will otherwise be a potential decrease. 

So as a result, you have tax incentives or reduced tax rates for real gains. Why does that matter? One, because these companies already have money that can invest more. But secondly, marginal change in the potential profitability of oil investment or gas investment versus green tech investment is significantly different different. I agree with opening; they're already incentives for you to do it; we would increase those incentives, so you end up doing it instantly sooner than you otherwise would. Why is that before that We'll tell you about the regulatory environment, and also it makes it easy to pass these kinds of measures on the companies going forward as they do become weaker, but they're no longer the hundreds of millions of dollars with the most valuable companies in the world. That is what it is easier for you to be able to regulate these companies.
  
It is—that is a huge benefit. It makes it easier to put these kinds of policies in place without the barriers which will otherwise exist. At the end of this debate, this is a justified policy. The money helps individuals and in particular can help improve continuous support for Russia. And the long term this is beneficial for green tech, but very happy to propose. 
</dpm>

<dlo>
To be clear, with the comparison of this debate, opposition believes that if you put the money in the coffers of the government, it may be used to help a cost of living crisis. Indeed, Drew and I will say some of that money will go to solving that cost of living crisis. The critical distinction on comparative is how much of that money goes there. 

We noted that there are politically affluent constituencies that when you satisfy enough people with this money, then afterwards you're going to allocate that funding to politically affluent groups. On our side of the house, the difference is very simple: the money comes through the term and dividends and also in terms of green energy reimbursement. The dividends come and help everybody and notably not just people located in a country where there's a lot of oil, but everyone in the world who has invested in them, which is pretty much everyone who has a pension. This is a far fairer distribution of money, and their side completely ignores the fact that we get a more certain and fair distribution as a whole. 

Three issues to talk about: first, was it reasonable for companies to make these profits? Second, who distributes this money better? Lastly, on Russia: first, it wasn't reasonable. The first thing I want to begin with is just explaining why this case is not profit-hungry. In case closing, government stands up and tries to claim it was, and to preempt any closing opposition material that might come out about how you can shift prices now because the reason why is this is a competitive market. It is pegged to a barrel of oil, and everybody knows that price of oil because it's in a global financial market. There are dozens of players—perhaps not enough, and we could have more competitors, but there's still a competitive aspect. Even if it could be more competitive, this means that prices stay relatively stable because there's clear transparency about what those prices are. They're closable markers, and there's competition to not form in a cartel. 

Now, in terms of this observation, what this then means is that these companies have done nothing malicious in making these profits. It is just incidental that they made more profits because of these circumstances. We told you about the enterprise risk, and crucially, what is more arbitrary: living in a country that has oil companies that can make millions of dollars or the fact that you might be a citizen who lives in a state who now gets dividends from that profit? More importantly here, as a crucial observation, this means that various thought the house doesn't actually fix the arbitrariness problem. In fact, it is actually making it worse because we think many of these companies have actually gone upon a risk in order to invest in this company and deserve a reward as a consequence.

But Research has two different responses. First of all, is this a reason to not increase corporate tax? The difference is this U.S. specifically being targeted when tech companies during COVID did well that had supernormal profits—they weren't targeted. The problem is the inconsistency on how you treat the property rate and how you derive the right of the individual company. Then they say you just store the oil, and that means you're able to make profits later on. I think that this is sometimes true, but not always true. Think about circumstances in which, for instance, energy is high demand in the winter, or other kinds of scenarios in which you're rapidly going to go through your supplies and your stores. Notably here, if this is true that you've stored all this oil, I actually think most of their environmental benefits or long-term benefits are going to be mitigated because that means a large amount of it has been extracted, Barnabas regardless.

No thanks. What did we tell you here as a secondary implication? We told you about monopolies; we told you about decreasing prices in the long run. We can see maybe prices will be slightly shorter in the short or higher in the short run. We think the long term of 15 to 20 years matters more. We told you about energy security and having more sources of energy so you no longer are dependent on Russia. None of that explicitly engaged with at the bottom. This argument—there is a property rate that these companies deserve. We think it is unfair to tax them, and doing so deters more companies from entering it. 

On the second argument about whether or not money gets distributed better, as I've already noted, yes, some of the money is going towards a cost of living crisis. The question here is the relative distribution and whether or not this is an optimal distribution given the comparative that I've already outlined. What we told you was twofold: first of all, the powerful constituencies are going to take up an excessive amount of that profit, and second of all, that short-termism means that without most of these governments, they are not going to care about green energy or reinvesting into these problems. The responses from Harish know that some of the money will go to the cost of living crisis; it does not make a difference.

No thanks. The next thing that comes from this, given that the money gets distributed better, is how this affects green energy because I think part of this question of distribution is the long-term benefit here on green energy. Yes, these companies are mega-rich, but Naomi herself tells you how risky it is to enter into this field—that your technology may not pan out, that your technology may be less optimal than other competitors, the other competitors get to the market first. All of those are reasons why it is immensely risky to go into the green energy field. This means that you need a significant amount of profit in order to be able to finance and invest in that. Naomi says mega, mega-rich isn't what you need. I counter-assert you do need to be mega, mega-rich, and you can't just say those phrases in order to disprove the analysis. 
  
What they say is that they more crucially alter the incentive because windfall taxes will not apply to green energy. First of all, think about the justification of this policy. Do you know what politicians are going to say? There's a cost of living crisis; they've been profiteering off the citizens. The almost explicit purpose of this policy is going to be one in which you're trying to redistribute money. Has nothing to do with whether or not it's renewable or gas, which means that because of the specific context of this policy, it doesn't indeed make companies feel that going into green energy may be less attractive, given the fact that you still have a windfall tax and the profits are taxed, meaning that the efficiency gains you come from, you get from technological innovation are diminished because those profit deficiencies that you have is explicitly taken away. Harish

<poi> 
They don't need to believe all the money is used for good rather than going to, at the very best, the middle class or rich investors are going to domestically a good amount of the reasons we told you about the salience of energy prices will be spent on these positive gains, which still win you political support, it is initially what you should does. 
</poi>

Yes, I agree, the problem is the comparative. We say better, money, or more of the money is spent well on our side of the house, so it's directly redistributed to citizens through dividends and through green energy investments by the companies. I don't contest your claim; I outwit. 

So the crucial reason why this green energy argument matters so much is that the harms of oil are not just on oil prices but those who have been displaced from the extraction of oil, and their policy only disproportionately benefits a small subsection of people—most of them could actually benefit from oils being so high—while completely disregarding those who have been hurt in foreign countries. While we rectify that better because we solve for green energy and we also redistribute these dividends more globally. The last thing on Russia. And here I just want to note that bonds are easy to access for most countries because they are government bonds. It is very unlikely that most governments are going to default. This might be a reason why there's a high debt-to-GDP ratio, but this is also going to prove that you don't need to be reliant on Russia because you can just borrow more money, right? The fact that you have guilt fatigued by sanctions means most politicians will believe fighting against Ukraine matters more than taking out some debt. 

In contrast, on our side of the house, we get more energy independence, and of course, there might be an environmental harm in the short run. More oil fields really investigated, but green energy needs to be developed and ready first so we can stop that dependency. But in the short to medium term, before that happens, we have more independence from Russia. And yes, maybe this is in 10 to 15 years; that is still a benefit because we don't know what sort of risk they will pose in the long run. Unveiling the question is simple: do you prefer the search and benefits of redistributing these dividends to regular people and getting investment, or do you care about the uncertain benefits that come from government incentives? Very proud to oppose. 
</dlo>

<mg>  
I'll discuss three things in this speech. One, I'm going to talk about why governments are going to be great at spending this money, which I think sort of breaks the clash between OG and OO about where this money is going, where this will be well spent. The second thing I want to talk about is instead of renewable investments made by oil and gas companies, I'm going to talk about institutional investors and the signaling impact of this tax. And the last thing I'm going to talk about is potentially maybe some stuff around the principle and why this is justified. Before all of that, I think there's a—there's two key pieces of framing that you need to do to take sort of OO out of this debate. I think the first thing you need to understand is that governments need the money. That's just there. There are two potential options here: either, as OG suggests, you have to go into slashing spending and austerity—I would posit governments will probably not want to go down this route because that is, well, that's a quick one-way ticket to getting out of power. 

Or there is the second alternative, which is either you raise taxes on other industries or you raise direct taxes on consumers, which I would suggest either makes the lives of the consumers much worse. But I would also posit that we are in a period of recession, so it probably is the debt of lots of industries or lower profitability in other industries. And, in general, the point there then is that there is vast economic suffering on the other side of the house. So any distribution that these guys do through, I don't know, like pension funds probably gets fucked to the point of which other industries are going out of business now. So if we move on to why governments are going to be good at spending this money and why there's a degree of accountability or extension material, I would posit that the first thing that happens once this tax is raised is that there is a lot of talk about this because this is an immensely political issue. 

Our leader suggests that oil and gas companies have massive lobbies, and they also have things like, you know, right-wing think tanks who publish papers, who show up on news shows or talk shows. They have politicians who lay back, who oftentimes come out against these taxes. There is going to be a lot of pushback at the point at which you increase the stacks for a longer period of time. You will have the same right propaganda that, you know, "Oh, this is going to lead to so many jobs being lost," or "Oh, this is sort of the loss that's going to happen." I would suggest that there is crucial scrutiny on how the government is spending this money that wasn't present before because the government did agree we did not have that fucking money. The second thing I would note is, as Naomi suggested, there's a large pool of money that you have now because the profits of oil and gas companies are considerable. 
 
I would suggest that this raises levels of, you know, just expectations about what standards of life are going to look like once this money does come in. So it raises expectations of the citizenry as well. But I would also note, in terms of framing this point, that the money that we are talking about, you know, money that's going to welfare schemes or money that's going to housing or heating or education or all of those issues, these are primary voter issues. These are not issues that are ancillary to you; these are issues that you vote on at the point of which these are directly related to your standard of life and your standard of living. I would posit a lot of people care now. I would also posit that governments have what is called a re-election incentive, which is why governments have an incentive to spend this money better than they have in the past. 
 
This is not the same situation. Governments are on the brink of recession, and if they want to keep their power, they have additional incentives to keep this going on. Now, I would also just add in, like, stuff that comes up with and OG responses here. Now, oh says governments are going to be really sure to spend this money because they're only going to send it to politically affluent constituencies. I just want to do a very basic wake-up way up here. Politically affluent constituencies or well politically powerful constituencies have poor people. Poor people do not have pension funds. So if their mechanism of distribution is literally pension funds or dividends, I would say the vast majority of your citizenry does not have access to those. As opposed to even if this money goes first to politically powerful constituencies, at the very least, it reaches vulnerable people that this money would not have gone to otherwise. 

In terms of impact, we, at the very least, impact very vulnerable stakeholders that their policy can never, ever impact and probably make things worse, as I point out at the top of my speech. Other industries probably die out; they slash jobs, and so on and so forth. This is extremely important in that scenario. But the second thing I would note is that governments don't only want to retain constituencies, and the point at which you're in recession, winning over other constituencies is also easier at the point in which you say, "Ah, we are the Tories, and we know that this is Liverpool, but at this point, we are the ones providing you with heating, and we are the ones that are providing you welfare." You know why? Because we're taxing all companies. I would suggest that you get a lot more political sway in historic constituencies where you were historically a lot weaker, so governments have a very, very strong incentive of actually using this money for basic good just because of the reduction uh incentive. 

But the third thing I would point out is that it just gives you room for policy experimentation. This is not—I know this is a one-time policy, but at the point at which another recession is about to hit, and I don't know, the tech industry is booming or other industries are booming, this allows you to, at the very least, create a precedent to start taxing those companies, those industries for waiting for taxes in the future as well, which I would suggest is a good thing because it gives something for poor people to fall back on in those instances. You do not have to deal with the same kind of rhetoric coming from the right-wing, which is, you raise taxes, you slash jobs, because we all know that these companies have enough profit to keep those jobs there. Nobody is slashing that that because Shell just made the highest profits they ever did in their 115-year history last year, so I don't reckon that they're going to lose jobs. If anything, this is a very profitable market; they're going to expand their stuff. I'm moving on to the next one but yes.

<poi>
If it's true reason is more spending, and that one false tax disproportionately hurt some companies, public detriments. Why don't you just take out, bonds, and accept that slightly higher debt-to-GDP ratio?
</poi>
 
But because, because you could go into recession—like, why would you want to—why would you want to accept something that is going to lead you to, if they're taking, like, lead you to losing voters at some stage? I just don't know why that's something that governments want to do. But the second thing I want to talk about is institutional investments into new companies. The context over here is it is a tough market, and it is volatile right now. In terms of investors, private equity funds and hedge funds aren't going out really nearly and dishing out cash; they're streaming it in. McKinsey is finally losing jobs. In terms of this, there are things that happen in the renewable sort of space in OO and OG. 
 
OG says, "Well, all companies will diversify," but I think OO is sort of fair in saying, "Well, they have a long-term incentive and diversification anyways; they get tax tax incentives right now, even apart from the windfall tax anyway." So they're probably already going into that, so it's unclear what the bigger marginal impact is; even if the impact is there, it's sort of marginal. They're already doing it. I will point out in the short term right now, this is great for institutional investors like private equity funds, which are again losing money or don't have very profitable industries to go into right now. I would suggest that this benefits a lot of ancillary industries, so I'm talking about lithium-ion battery manufacturers or potentially new companies coming in who want to, I don't know, create an electric car or something like that because you know that there is a higher return on profit. 

And I know that both OO and OG have sort of said that this is sort of a risky space to invest in. I don't know, like, I did use it; it's not risky. You get a lot of money if you come back into renewables anyway, so I would posit that this leaves you there. But why is the short-term investment crucially important? Because I would suggest that private equity funds have a lot of money, and secondly, their money in the short run would not have gone there had the signaling effect not been there because private equity funds are probably thinking, "Ah, they’ve extended this tax; will they extend it again?" The rate of profitability has fallen down, so the lack of certainty around this means that they're unlikely to do that, which they will in our world. 
For all those reasons, very proud to oppose. 
</mg>

<mo>
I'm starting in three, two, one. Let's be very clear: all government benches, including OG, actually brings the case, and CG who most repeats the mechanization, regardless of Hamza backloads, and web speech is dependent on this tax outweighing the harm of the rising prices. We agree with the government better that the government needs money. The question is whether the money will be spent well, but we will personally extend an opening opposition. We will show why this policy is shit, even if there are no rivers government incentives, no short-term government incentives, the government wants the best for us. It's still going to be absolutely harmful for three reasons. 

Firstly, the very reason closing government gives us is that there are politicians being lobbied by corporations. There are ideological differences between parliament people who want to advocate, like opening opposition does, for market freedom and letting the market solve. This proves to us it's a long and protracted bureaucratic process. It took part in Croatia seven months to impose policies like this. The reason being that we have a pro-market government in an anti-governmental position. The problem with that being it happens significantly at the risk of rising energy prices, which opening government says is so urgent. Secondly, and more importantly, energy prices are the main driver of inflation within the entire economy. 

So it's not just the price of heating that rises because energy is an intermediary good in any form of production because all forms of consumer goods and durable goods also rise, ranging from food to everyday appliances for anything you can buy in a supermarket. Which means that even if the average distribution opening government talks about happens, it only mirrors one part of the inflation. The majority is still there, and people have rising prices at the end of the day. What is the context of this, and why this is out by opening government? Because their policy is the one that causes the problem; you're sending a signal to get back to corporations that they can raise their prices as much as they want. Yes, you're going to tax them, but you're not going to cap their profit, which is to say you enter into an infinite spiral where companies continue to raise their prices over and over again, which is to say that you increase prices for consumers overall, which not only directly outweighs the harm to citizens for opening government, but it also makes the governments need more money, which is one of the primary problems that opening government wants to solve. 

Because there is nothing preventing these corporations from utilizing the current market situation to try the market price, because the market price is nothing else than an implicit consensus between corporations on the market. It's not externally set. But thirdly, windfall taxes are limited on the corporation, not in its financial activities, which means there's a huge amount of loopholes the corporations can use to simply avoid this tax—stuff like subsidiaries, stuff like shell companies. That's famous. If anything else, it's a very good incentive to shape your headquarters out of the country, which means that a lot of the things that opening government wants to happen, even if we have good incentives for the government and opening opposition, it's simply not going to happen. 

I have proven, firstly, that even in the best government scenario, the harm will exist and the policy is bad. But I've also proven that the policy directly makes the harms worse, going a step further than opening opposition.Now Secondly, let me make very clear what our path to victory is in this debate. We are going to take the government ground, assume both of the government teams win the clash on whether it's principally justified. Even within that context, on a strategically beneficial scenario for government, we're going to show that the realistic counterfactual is better than the one that the government has set up, therefore achieving victory on the government's own metric. 
  
What is the most likely reasonable alternative? Simply empirically based on the facts, that's going to happen if we don't have a windfall tax. It seems like price caps and profit caps have been empirically set up all over the European Union by countries like Germany. Why is this the case? Well, for reasons that both government teams give us: because people don't want to be cold, and there's bipartisan political capital because the government said it's very proximate to you, which is something that everybody votes on because people want to have lower prices. Therefore, there is capital for some kind of regulation. The question of this debate empirically, actually, outside of the paid world, the world manual or whatever, is what happens absent this policy. If this is the alternative that happens absent this policy, we will prove it's better. 

We win this debate. Why is it a better alternative? Firstly, because it provides benefits directly to citizens, i.e., I directly pay less for energy, regardless of how good the government isn't redistributing money. Secondly, in April, it stops the inflation spiral because it caps the price at a certain level, which means that the government does not need more money in the long term to make up for the higher prices that are happening and the higher inflation that is happening. But thirdly, because it is targeted at sales and not the legal person, which means it targets everything sold to you at any point, because the policy is far more far-reaching, which is to say the authority we have in the counterfactual is one that's far more direct but is far more implementable and does not cause the problem in the way that the opening government and closing government case does. 
Before moving to a bunch more of responsive work of the Harish.

<poi>
Opening opposition, tell us, the market is sufficiently competitive, then prices will not rise as everyone knows the cost of a barrel of oil. You tell us prices will rise significantly. Who's wrong and why? 
</poi>

No, I'm telling you opening government runs a very opening opposition runs a very good case. This should probably win over both government teams. I'm also telling you that assuming that you win the battling opposition I can run that ground as well. I'm perfectly allowed to do that. I'm sure you, Harish, know that. Cool. A couple of other pieces of responsiveness. Firstly, all the weird Russia-Ukraine. There are four reasons why we still have support for war against Russia. Firstly, because there is above Europe nuclear war all across Europe ever since World War II, apart from the Balkans. 

And nobody cares about the Balkans. There has not been a war on the European Union's borders. Countries like the Baltic states, Poland, Moldova, etc. have a history of being occupied by Russia. The alternative is potentially dying if Ukraine has a frontier fall, and if people are willing to accept that cost. But secondly, as the government themselves concedes, there is urgency to push for renewables because we have to diversify our sources because Russia won't sell anymore. There are subsidies being offered by the European Union to do that, which is to say the cost is probably going to shift in the long term. But thirdly, there's spot dependency at the point where you do implement sanctions, where you don't put the costs from the people. You have to show something to make good for it. 

At the end of the day, you have to be able to say we were able to bankrupt Russia's war machine; we were able to attrition them into losing. At the point where we impose those thoughts, that's when you're not going to go back on them, even if the people don't support it. So I'm not sure why you lose support for the war in Ukraine or why you lose those sanctions. I also want to respond to the green energy point, right? And this is where we build the scales and where we, you know, break the demo because is it risk? Is it not risky? Blah, blah, blah, blah. Here's the thing: there is a particular political juncture in this situation where there is a push for green energy, not necessarily because people like it, but because they're being forced into it. 

I.e., you can either diversify your sources by buying gas from Iran or Azerbaijan or Qatar or any other actor who has the intended to ramp up the price because they know you have no alternative, or you have the incentive to become self-sustainable by shifting to renewables through things like subsidies for green energy. In support that incentive exists. I'm not sure why the government wants to slow down the process by allowing companies to have unrealistically high profit margins despite the realistic need to shift towards renewable energy at the point where we have a situation where we can justify shifting to renewables through the length of securitization, to the length that we might not like it, but we have no alternative. 

To the length that it's a geopolitical tool against Russia, we have all the political capital we need, and  government wants to impose a policy that's going to accomplish artificially high profit margins on the other side of the debate, and we're not going to use this particular junction we have now. Note how slow the shift has been despite Paris and Kyoto. If we don't use this opportunity to justify to other means, we don't know when we get that opportunity again, and that's why they lose out on the debate on renewable energy. For all of these reasons, closing opposition.
</mo>

<gw>
Is a great auditor, Tin was able to kiss Harish's ass and test Taha in the same sentence, so I'm going to show you the legitimate things that Taha did say because this happens quite a lot. Number one, Taha is the first person to break the clash on this money being used responsibly. Because of the opening government pushes, we get lots of money in opening opposition exposures that they are more legitimate and effective forms of redistribution. Then logically, if the team which wins the debate is a team that shows that this money is much more likely to be effectively used, Taha gives two broad structural reasons for this, which are broadly conceded for the means of opposition's extension. 

Number one, you have lots of Astro turf organizations set up by these oil companies—Americans against oil taxes, all of that stuff you have—right-wing politicians, you have right-wing op-eds, you have right-wing think tanks which are going after this government as silly and ineffective, but most of all pointing out that if cost of living is the name of the game, this is the worst way to do it. If that is true, there are heightened levels of scrutiny upon this government to use this money in immediate and effective ways to swing a voting public, which is both sides have discussed are reasonably polarized within this discussion. I think this is an incredibly important point in terms of impacting opening government's analysis and also being invulnerable to opening opposition's response on this money not being used effectively. 

Secondly, I think it does a great job of also responding implicitly to Tin's point about this idea of you could have regulated them instead or you could have done something else. One fairly World School's understanding of how political capital works, right? Like, you know there's a box of political capital—it's 100 political capitals, and we can use 100 little capitals to Policy X, which is us, or 100 to do yours, which is policy Y. One, that's never how policy works because what often happens is you take an inch, and then you take a mile. This is exactly what happened in the Wall Street crisis; this is exactly what happened with crypto four months ago at my detriment, and this is exactly what's going to happen right now, which is the point at which you say, "Fuck Off, we're going to impose the windfall tax." 

Lots of people start saying, "Why are these people making 40 billion dollars a year? Why is ExxonMobil nearly 300 billion dollars of revenue?" More and more and more people start coming out against it. This is why historically legislation gets more and more intense once you start going after a target because it becomes more and more unpopular. If anything, our government would be accused of hypocrisy by subsidizing an industry that they're not taxing. We say go after the subsidies, which is exactly what people are saying in the pages of the New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, which is that if you have a windfall tax, then logically you shouldn't be subsidizing this industry to tax breaks of a trillion dollars. We think we get much more change in our world at the point in which people accuse this government of this hypocrisy and of this incompetence, and helps get much more regulation in our world. 

Second, I think it's important to understand that diversification incentives exist on both sides. I think the opposition bench has done a great job of being like, "Here are the ten reasons why diversification would happen opening government side," but there's a couple more, and I'm like, fair enough. I think the way that Taha breaks the clash is by talking about signaling and policy expectations, which is realistically how companies make decisions. What will the government do next? Is it exactly what an investor is thinking at any given time, just like with inflation expectations? For instance, in this case, if the government continues this increase, as Rishi Sunak is debating this in Parliament for the last two weeks, then it signals to institutional investors that this is something that the government might do for a long amount of time. 

What this means then is that the signaling to the market shifts capital away from things like this the lithium-ion and iron batteries and different things, which helps the renewable push. Again, a very crucial mechanism in terms of proving the product push renewable energy. I think that's super, super important. The third, Jason comes up and says, "You know what? Like, why didn't we tax those tech companies when they made all that money in 2020?" Thank you. Because we want to set a precedent. We want to set a precedent for windfall taxes. The point at which if companies are making arbitrary gains out of circumstances that were no longer in their control, I think it sets up a real political discussion about when you should have windfall taxes in the future. 

In fact, we compound the benefits on opening government. We say the next time debt arbitrarily makes money because you're sitting at home because of a pandemic, again, we should windfall tax them, and we should take that gain and distribute it equitably and fairly. And finally, just on this Ukraine point, I think it's important to understand, like, you know, there's a hundred reasons to be in Ukraine. I really don't think it's a debate word argument to say this will be the reason that people don't do it. I agree with both OG and OO; I have nothing to say on that. Quickly on closing opposition then, first, I showed you that this political capital argument is vulnerable to two responses. One, political capital is not mutually exclusive in this case, but two, governments are further accused of hypocrisy. 

It's a second claim that it makes, which is the claim about rising energy prices, and the hidden claim within that is, but on whom will the incidence of the tax fall? Two reasons why it will fall on the company and not the consumer: number one, governments have, and in many cases are instating price caps. It's specifically to ensure that the incidence of the tax won't fall on the consumer. But secondly, and structurally, I say there's an overall rise of negative public sentiment against these companies to begin with, right? Like, imagine that the government taxes them, and then the next day you're like, "Wow, oil was 350 in Arizona last night, and now it's 450." People aren't fucking stupid, and they're watching that change happen. And the more Shell is taxed, the more they take you for their money. Before I engage with opening opposition, I'm going to take Jason. Go ahead. 

<poi> 
Where polarization crucially occurs, the very most opponents will always invent a problem with your budget and critique the government regardless. Why does this mean that you always want to create the best possible budget when you'll always be critiqued and always be attacked in a polarized context like you suggest? 
</poi>

They want to get elected. Yeah, that's the one, because what happens is when you're running these close races, and when you know you're taking a big risky move like a fucking windfall tax, this policy might be the reason you win or lose an election, which means that you have to ensure that the next state is something happening in Liverpool or Manchester, which shows the gains from this risky policy.

Opening opposition: a couple of claims. One, the argument from legitimate wealth: they said you worked for it. You've worked to do lots of bad things in society, but if there's a third-party harm on someone, you do not deserve that wealth. Secondly, it's important to understand that this wealth was not directly gained. If I work and get a PhD from Harvard and then I win the lottery the next day, one does not have to do with the other. That's why this wealth is not legitimate. Second, taking out all of their fancy economic analysis, boiling down their argument on redistribution to a sentence: "Rise in oil company profits are a more effective form of distribution than the government." I think that's insane. I'm going to the bucket, I'm going to the bucket, but I think that's categorically insane, and I don't think they should be allowed to get away with that for a couple of reasons. 

One, the government has electoral incentives to ensure that the taxes that they use are distributed fairly. Second, they have an underpinning welfare state that these people don't have. Poor people don't have pensions across the world. For a lot of people who do have pensions, invest in these specific oil companies might not be the people who are most suffering while the government can be much more active in its redistribution. I cannot believe that they ran that. But finally, on this renewable stuff, you know what? It goes either way, panel. We've shown to you that the tax incidence falls on these companies that disrespected for institutional investing and also that the side is a better precedent. I'm very, very proud to oppose.
</gw>

<ow>
Yes, I do realize too that I seem to go against this debate dog thing of you see stuff that's been thrown at you by the government, and you buy it because you have to disagree with everything they're saying, which is why I read the motion like five different times to be sure I'm not the one who isn't paying attention. There are huge profits that are being made by these companies because if there aren't, this motion does not apply, and it doesn't matter, and we can all go home, right? Given that those huge profits exist, and given that I've signaled in a POI to Naomi that this is what we will do, right? We will point out we also probably think it's good to protect consumers. We just think that's not a good way to do it.

There are better ways to do it. Naomi's response was, "Oh no, but the windfall tax is direct, targeted, and it harms us properly." What Tin and I are telling you is that if that's what you want, there are other ways in which you can also apply policies that are direct, targeted, and harm those profiting that achieve their goals better, which is why I think closing opposition should win this debate. Now, here's the thing. I don't think we are connecting a world simply because, again, if OO was trying to say that these companies aren't going to make huge profits, this motion wouldn't exist because this is not about taxing revenues; this is about taxing profits. So what that means is that simply the fact that the price of crude oil has gone up worldwide doesn't mean that the companies that provide energy, because they're taking that oil and they're turning it into energy, sending it to consumers, they still want to make large profits because their costs also increase, and they would simply be passing on those costs onto consumers. 

That's not profit; that's revenue, right? So what that means is that if we are talking about huge profits, it means that those companies, additionally to the increases that already happen anyway because the raw materials increase, they are able to massively profit off it, right? So like OG and CG give you all kinds of various arguments on why there's tons of political capital to hit all companies to ease pressure on consumers. If that is true, great. Just use it better. CG says, "You know, governments can institute price caps." And they've kind of tried to do that—like they haven't really tried to do that. I think that's that's a thing they can do. What I'm telling you is take all of the political capital that you want to spend on windfall taxes. I'm telling you windfall taxes aren't going to work as great as you think they will, and instead, put it on price caps. 

What's the difference? Because I do feel dumb when Harish laughs at me, right? But I genuinely think I'm getting this right. Here's the thing: windfall taxes mean you allow the company to profit, meaning you allow them to put a huge markup on the things you are passing on to consumers, meaning the consumers need to pay those huge prices for the profit to be there in the first place. Then you take a small part of that pie of the profit and you say you go give it back. It's kind of like looking at a hole in the Titanic. Instead of trying to block the hole in the Titanic, you take a bucket and throw water out of it. Yes, you will throw water out of it with a windfall tax, like you're taking some of those profits, and you can give it back to the people, but it's much smaller than the damage that is being done. Unless you tax those profits at literally 100%, which I just don't think is likely. 

And if you wanted to run that, you should have made it clear in P.O.I. So, here's the thing: we are telling you instead of allowing those profits to keep rising and saying, "You know they're not that great; we want a share of that," we're saying don't allow them to make those profits in the first place. Why? Because they're the incentives of the companies. I have to minimize their tax bills; they're to maximize whatever is left after the tax. If I have the choice between earning a million dollars and paying a hundred thousand dollars in tax because you tax me more because I'm rich, I would much prefer that over only earning a hundred thousand dollars in total, and then, you know, I still maybe only pay a thousand dollars in tax, and like that's a much lower tax rate. It's a much lower overall tax bill, but also the size of the pie that I'm left with after those lower taxes is smaller, meaning that if you have windfall taxes, companies are still going to choose to maximize profit as much as they can because what taps them currently is the price they're able to get on the market and the fact that there's very low elasticity of price for things like heating because people need to heat, like OG gives you all of that, right? 

So what that means is that when you need to intervene those companies making those profits rather than just saying, "Well, you know, we want the tiny size of that pie and maybe give it back to people." So, yeah, actually, I'll take OG. 

<poi>
Okay, companies can't increase prices a huge amount, obviously, because they're already trying to maximize, as you were noted, and they will not just keep increasing profits. They'll put the prices to the point where you have reduced demand. That is why you don't have the effect you are talking about.
</poi>

But the problem is that the kind of profits that we are seeing, they are generally going to be the kinds of things that are see realized in the moment. That is the first answer. 

And the second thing that I think is important here is you need to distinguish between the energy companies that are uh are simply buying raw material and—okay, no. The the other answer to Harish is basically that there's only so many reserves you can have; they're usually at pretty much 100% anyway, and like when you feel them, it doesn't really matter. What matters is that when the price is high and you increase your profit margins, you're able to make profit, because note that if you buy that energy cheaper, that is reflected in your profit margins because the profit is, again, the difference between what you buy and what you sell. So that doesn't even make sense, Rich, but because that would be then reflected. And then if we stop you from having those profits, then that is great. 

But then what we also need to pay attention to is that probably what makes a difference is also where those profits are being made because if you are trying to target extractors, like good luck targeting, like Saudi Arabia or Venezuela, or Russia would windfall tax is not going to happen, right? So that probably means that if you want to target those companies making a ton of profits because they're extracting their own resources and storing it and selling it on the global market when the global market price is high, you don't—I genuinely don't think you can prove that Russia is going to implement the windfall tax for their companies or that Saudi Arabia will do that, right? So then the only way you can target them is you target them at the moment where they introduce that thing on the global market, which is what we've seen you trying to do. 

Like, it pushed a shit ton of money to Russia even though, you know, trying to threaten they will no longer buy gas from Russia. But the only moment in which Russia's profits actually started to hold and Russia's economy actually started to take a hit is when you put a price cap on how much they are willing to pay on Russian oil. We are telling you that that is something that we have seen work, and it is something that we should continue to have. But second, the main data here—and because that's where you realistically have some sort of influence—are the local energy companies that are profiting. They're literally making billions—like, it's—I don't know the names in the UK, right? But there's like the Vienna Energy Company that had literally billions in profit last year, and it's not because they didn't always have like a 100 reserves that they fail whenever the price is low; it's simply because they were able to push the prices higher. 

And if if if you tax that—sorry, if you prevent those profits from being made, that is when you get everything that is telling you of—you get lower inflationary pressures because you get lower spikes in consumer goods prices. You also get, because you get lower inflation, then you also get lower hikes in tax rate, which means debt doesn't become that much more expensive, which means that you just make the problem smaller instead of finding the inefficient way to solve it. It's very proud to oppose.
</ow>