<pm>
Transition smoothly a bit of characterization. Then, these are liberal university students as organizers who opposed Hasina's authoritarian rule. Specifically, they were opposed to the spoil system that gave jobs and social benefits to the descendants of people involved in the 1971 Liberation War. They took the cause to the street recently, and their national military cracked down, and therefore the government has been overthrown ever since. 

First argument: Democratic consolidation. The goal of this debate is on OG; you want a stable transition to democracy. Context: Bangladesh is at an extremely pivotal and fragile moment of transition. This is a post-revolutionary state. The military still has huge amounts of influence, and large factions of the military still have ties to the Hasina government. On top of this, Bangladesh is also a relatively impoverished country with high levels of ethnic and religious divisions and tensions. Therefore, there is a lot of instability currently brewing within the region. 

What then happens when student organizers directly run for political roles? We say this is quite bad for a couple of reasons. One, it actively reduces the buy-in to the prospect of a future democratic government, especially the perception of it, which often impacts how it plays out in the long run. Why? Because often, youth have religious conservatives and rural populations in Bangladesh, and on top of that, people and supporters with loyalty to the old regime who are deeply skeptical of these people running for office. 

Why the specific concern with this crowd of student organizers running is that it alienates a substantial amount of people who fear that the student organizers are not striving for a truly democratic government but instead just authoritarianism run by the opposition party themselves. 

What is the impact of this mechanism? This often means that there is likely going to be less buy-in for institutions, i.e., for example, people don't pay as much taxes, and that's a big problem for Bangladesh right now. Or, second, it is easy for radical opposition parties to characterize student-led parties or governments as radical and violent. If you view these parties as radical and violent, you are more likely to vote for a radical alternative, nationalist, or Islamist party. 

You do things like exacerbate ethnonationalism in politics; you actually do more instability. Second, this is also bad because it reduces electoral competition. How does this actually happen? Because many people involved in the protests are almost assuredly going to vote for these student leaders when they run. Why is it the case? Because often they have already built a cult of personality when organizing these revolutions. 

They all have a charisma, which is what allows them to organically rise to the top of these revolutions in the first place, and there is a track record of their efforts and their success. Most importantly, these leaders are also likely to run in the same party or government to actively capitalize on the July Revolution support, which is unprecedentedly large compared to any efforts they have made in the past. 

Why is this terrible then? Because this actively increases the fear of further democratic backsliding. If you are already a person on defense and skeptical of the revolution, when there is less support for these figures that cannot really be challenged in any meaningful way because the AL government and their credibility are down the drain, you fear they become the Nena, even if they never end up like that. 

This is a comparative argument. Why? Because in the counterfactual, there are still going to be parties that run to appeal to these student voters, these student protesters. But there are going to likely be more competing parties and political figures because they cannot all unite under the silver bullet that we took down the AL government. 

They are all going to have to do so much more to differentiate themselves to make sure they are proposing real policy. But also, second, these leaders face less political accountability on their side. The students who led the protests are, while very able people, not actually infallible. Power tends to corrupt even when there are good intentions. 

In some cases, when you give large amounts of power to a small group, they often have selfish incentives to engage in things like ethnic favoritism. You may view that you need some level of majority support to make sure that you can stay in government to pass the policies you want to pass because you genuinely believe ideologically these are good policies that you want to help the Bangladeshi people. 

You often sometimes might engage in corruption because you believe there is no way out to get funds besides actively appealing to the military. In some cases, even if you think that these are all done for good causes, this often leads to democratic backsliding, even when intentions are not harmful. 

Often I say that, sure, these leaders are good. We agree they’re probably good, but when they get into power, things often change. We argue that change is likely, especially in these circumstances of large amounts of instability. But third, what this means is that leaders cannot be held accountable to the ballot box, and this is no longer that different from the old regime. 

This is terrible. The counterfactual is that we likely think there is a multiplicity of parties, and leaders are likely going to contest in these elections. Student leaders likely support a variety of parties. Political competition is good. Why? Because you often have to appeal to more groups, more minorities. 

It is harder for you to alienate them, you often prevent backsliding, and they hold each other accountable, which is crucial in a moment of democratic transition. Second argument before that closing.

<poi>
So if the anti-discrimination student movement doesn't run, what other force has the institutional capacity to form a party? Or is it just going to be lots of sort of small independent groups cooperating also, that up fighting against each other? 
</poi>

Well, I mean, I think this is a question to be answered in the round. I'm not exactly sure right now. Ryan will do it. 

Second argument: This reduces immediate political instability. It is not even clear that we will get elections or when we will get elections. Therefore, we need stability to make sure the transitional government at least works in the interim because these are lives of people at stake. There are families to feed, and there are people we need to house. 

Why does this actively benefit the conditional government then? Because here's a comparative: it is far more likely they get a military coup on opposition. The way you should weigh this argument is that even if this happens, like 30% more likely, that is a huge risk we would not wish to take because often that leads to blood on the streets. 

Often that means that people's livelihoods are destroyed, and you lose faith in democracy, which ends up being irreversible on their side. The military holds very powerful positions in Bangladesh for reasons. They've always been given huge levels of control of the Bangladeshi economy since the Cold War. 

They are politically influential because of connections to political parties. The problem is that when the military backs the incumbent government, they have a vested interest in the leaders of protest movements. Why? They do not want the leaders of protest movements involved because the leaders specifically are people in unions and figureheads of the anti-military movement. 

Then, when student organizers begin running for office, you view democracy as a threat to the military's grasping power, and this is a perception issue on their side. The counteract by no means is perfect on our side, but student protesters are more able to portray democracy as good for the military. 

You can better ally with the military or at least not go directly against it. Even if it's not a clear path on our side, they will undermine elections, and there's more violence against protesters. That's all on that, far worse. Very proud to propose. 
</pm>

<lo>
So, we're going to explain two simple things in opening opposition: first, why leadership is better; secondly, why the world in which these student leaders engage outside the democratic system is far worse. 

I'm going to prove how you get instability that OG thinks is so important, as well as better policies. So, firstly, why do we just get better leadership within the system? We agree with the premise of opening government that these student leaders are likely to win because they're often uniquely inspiring people. Many people supported the movement in the first place to overthrow the dictatorship, indicating a large commitment of support. 

The current leader of the provisional government is likely to back these individuals as well. They are just generally relatable to you and uniquely inspiring because they represent the movement that gave them democracy and was pushing to give them democracy. It represented the end of the dictatorship that oppressed so many individuals. 

Why is this so good? I have a couple of reasons why the people make better leaders and are uniquely able to represent the youth.
  
And make their voices important in the political sphere in the first place, and the premise directly challenges what we get out of opening government that says there will be incentives to represent the youth on either side of the house if we prove that youth otherwise would be politically disengaged. This means there's less political incentive to cater to them because they don't see them as viable voters in the first place. Why is this the case? Firstly, youth deeply distrust the establishment, not only due to decades of oppression under a dictatorship, or the sudo dictatorship, and a legacy of corruption associated with other parties like the BNP as well, but also just generally associate the state itself as a source of repression. 
  
Additionally, youth have incentives to engage in rational ignorance where they believe that their vote doesn't matter, and they have less incentive, therefore, to be politically engaged. It's not worth it to put in the effort to, you know, vote and to try and learn about political parties if you don't think your vote is going to matter in the first place. Even when you do consume media, it often feeds you negative narratives about, for example, why democracy is a shame. Horrible things in your country are happening, and it's not worth voting because media often sensationalizes the worst things that happen because it's the most eye-catching. 

This means that youth, who often disproportionately appeal to these things, have no incentives to want to engage politically otherwise. So, it is uniquely only the leaders that represented the transition to democracy that youth are willing to fight for the past that would make them engage in the political system and have some degree of trust to want to vote in the first place. On their side, they have no leverage. 

The second reason why youth are going to be disproportionately not represented is that they are economically weak as well. This is likely because, you know, being quite young, you have less time to accumulate wealth in the long term, which gives you political and economic leverage. Additionally, Bangladesh is currently going through an economic transition, moving from a relatively poor to a more middle and upper-income country, which has resulted in large amounts of unemployment in the short term. As you know, when your country becomes richer and wages rise, it means that as the economy begins to transition, many people are left behind and left unemployed. 
  
This disproportionately harms the youth because their lack of experience and time means they're not likely to be, for example, the highest middle management type people, and more likely to be workers, which has left many of them economically in the dust. This means that they have less lobbying power, but also less economic power to be engaged in the system as well, take time off to vote, and to do things like attend protests and rallies, especially in the context of a post-revolution society where a lot of their will to engage and their will to protest has been exhausted. 

This means that in the absence of these individuals, they get no representation for the youth. Furthermore, I want to explain why youth leaders themselves are incredibly good. This is because there's likely to be a selection effect where the youth leaders are likely to be people that have strong liberal democratic values, to the extent that they were willing to fight and potentially be incarcerated or die for these values in an oppressive regime in the first place. This suggests a deep ideological attachment to things like democracy and the liberalization of society. 
  
What is the impact of all of this? I think it's first just good that we have good democratic liberal values, or things against corruption and pro things like meritocracy. But also, on a political policy level, it's good that we have demands to cater to people that have long-term interests, that is, the youth who are going to live for much longer than people who are not the youth. This is important because these demands, for example, have transitioned away from textiles and other forms of low-skill industry, which is bad in the long term even if it is desirable for politicians in the short term. 

Why are these things bad in the long term? For example, textiles or other forms of manufacturing are often unsustainable as Bangladesh becomes more economically wealthy. As incomes rise, exports become less competitive because you have higher costs of inputs, and this is bad because it hinders other industries. Additionally, automation would otherwise force countries like Bangladesh to industrialize as well. 

So, why is it the case that alternatives are bad and are going to care about these short-termist interests? First, let's begin by characterizing who these alternatives are. For example, the BNP is an old establishment party, which has the resources and the legitimacy to succeed by being an opposition party to the Awami League. This is a problem because they have a long history of corruption and institutionalized corruption, which is likely to continue. 

Often, you as a leader of a party that is engaged in corruption become passively adapted to having large amounts of wealth and resources, but they are also likely to be politically short-termist as well. They are likely to have connections because, as an old establishment party, you have large connections with industry, for example, manufacturing or textiles, which is often tipping point of view catering to the their interests. Not only do they have personal connections, but because there are also competing alternative incentives. 
  
For example, many workers in society are somewhat short-termist; they want to keep their jobs in the short term, even if it's bad for the country in the long term. Thus, these two factors incentivize alternative parties like the BNP to overvalue short-term interests and prioritize things like textiles rather than adapting and investing in better long-term economic plans. Secondly, I think another alternative is likely to be Islamist parties as well because Bangladesh has a large Muslim population, which is likely to be incredibly oppressive towards Hindu minorities. 
  
This is likely to be the case because Islamist parties use this as a primary means of differentiation as a political party against other parties, which leads to a more extremist type of rhetoric and policy stance. Secondly, I want to explain why it is worse for these leaders to engage outside the political system. Before that closing.

<poi>
UNSS has been a powerful democratizing and anti-corruption force even just since August, and overthrowing the Hasina was the cause of momentum that can be channeled to strengthen existing political institutions. Which Young people now, not in the past, have the desire to work.
</poi>

But but the problem is it's associated with these student leaders alongside the government as they front for the pro-democracy movement. When they don't run, they also look to do things like be critical of the otherwise democratic system. In the counterfactual, which we are going to explain now, in the short run, we think in a world where these people do not run, it leads to more instability. For example, these student leaders are more likely to do things that start protests because they believe these other alternative parties are bad and anti-democratic, which they are also likely to be, as we proved in our previous point. 
  
So, they do things like protest in the streets, even if it's not all youth; it's likely the leaders and their close followers who now are not choosing to run but still have the original passion and desire to be engaged. This is a problem because these types of protests firstly lead to things like democratic backsliding and distrust of the government, which OG think is so harmful, but also creates instability itself, which leads to things like investor flight. 

Finally, I think the overwhelming dominance of the student party that would run on our side is good in terms of avoiding the gridlock that occurs more when you have a plurality of parties on their side of the house. That are to have overwhelming majorities, and gridlock itself is often inherently bad when, for example, parties have incentives to sabotage the main party in a coalition because they want them to succeed less so they can win in the next electoral cycle. This is really powerful because you don't pass basic infrastructural bills that Bangladesh needs in a post-conflict society. Proud to oppose.
</lo>
  
<dpm>
If this was WEDC 1980 and motion was about Zimbabwe and ZANU PF and Robert Mugabe, all of opening opposition's arguments could be made to the very same extent that the people we need to care the most about are the young revolutionaries involved in the protest movements who need to be represented by their lovely figure, Mugabe. We all know how that story ends—hint: not well. The thesis of opening government is straightforward: power corrupts. The student protesters did a good thing by opposing by toppling Hasina's regime.
  
The best thing, they can now do is to stay on the outside to criticize, yes, to protest, as opposed to become corrupted by the political establishment. Three points in this speech: first on youth voting, second the counterfactual, finally democratic consolidation.

First on youth establishment. This is opening opposition's main point. I have four lines of response. Response number one: the premise of opening opposition's claim is that the youth are otherwise unlikely to engage in politics. That's unlikely because student organizers don't disappear on our side of the house. They still exist, they still have charisma, they still have a sense of personality, and strong incentives to encourage youth voters to turn out and vote. 

The reason why this is probably a message that will be received well by young individuals is for all the reasons that opening opposition themselves name. For example, the fact that these leaders have unique power over student protesters, the fact that these people have charisma, the fact that these individuals are seen as having accomplished a revolutionary movement. This means that even if there is a marginal reduction in the youth vote, it's not 60%; rather, we probably get a high level of youth turnout on either side of the house, mitigating opening opposition's claim. 

Response number two: political parties, most obviously the BNP, have strong structural incentives under our side of the house to appeal to our youth voters. This is for three reasons. Reason number one: the August protest movement energized youth votes in a way that was not true historically. So, opening opposition is right; historically, young voters in Bangladesh did not participate in democratic politics. But the fact that they have now been energized and mobilized by the most powerful moment in post-independence Bangladeshi history means that youth voters probably feel empowered to participate in democratic politics, even if their leaders do not run. 

Reason number two: political parties have strong incentives to appeal to youth voters to deter any potential violence. Hint: what did student protesters do this August when political parties did not represent them? They turned to the streets; they rioted. Foreign investment plummeted, which means even if the BNP, excuse me, is corrupt and selfish, its corrupt and selfish interests align with appealing to youth voters to ensure there is not a second July Revolution. 

Reason number three: on our side of the house, we have durable fiat to assume these leaders do not solely form a political party. But if you're in the BNP in the next 5, 10, or 15 years, you're always concerned that if you do not appeal sufficiently well to youth voters, these guys might come out of retirement and actually run against you. This means the theoretical potential that these organizers could potentially run in elections is a powerful preemptive deterrent against neglecting or ignoring the youth's vote. 

Response number three to opening opposition: we'll flip their claim. Youth distrust will be worse on their side of the house. This is an argument that applies to the longer-term prospect, not the immediate term. Both teams agree in the short term the people who participated in the protests vote overwhelmingly for these figures. But what happens in the long term? Student protesters are likely to feel enormously disillusioned with Bangladeshi politics. Why is that? Because when these people become political operators, when they run parties, when they're in government, they have to make decisions and trade-offs that protesters feel violate the principles they pushed for.
  
These people have to accept campaign contributions from corporations; they have to engage in political horse-trading to overcome the gridlock opening opposition describes. Here's the problem: when the person that you saw leading the revolution is now engaging in the very same kinds of political shenanigans that you opposed and fought against, that is when you are much more likely, on their side of the house, to feel personally attacked. 

Now to be clear, on both sides of the house, some political party has to engage in horse-trading, campaign contributions, etc. It's better when that's a mainstream political party like the BNP, as opposed to these figureheads of the movement violating their trust, which flips their claim on engagement long-term and also increases the probability of protests on the streets. This comprehensively flips opening opposition's claim and mitigates it to the point they cannot win on this argument. 

Point number two: what is the counterfactual? Opening opposition says that the likely counterfactual is the Bangladesh Nationalist Party. We agree. Here are three reasons: first, this party has existing infrastructure. They've been in power or been the main opposition movement since the rise to power in 2009. They've been the main secondary party in Bangladesh since the 80s. 

Reason number two: the AL is overwhelmingly unlikely to win votes in the upcoming election. Why is that? They've been enormously discredited; their leader literally fled to, I think, India. The point is that the AL is at an all-time low, which means the BNP has enormous capacity to win the election because they have existing infrastructure. 

Reason number three: just empirically, polling shows that the BNP is probably going to be the largest party in whatever the next election happens to be. Now, opening opposition's claim here is twofold. First, they say that radical Islamist parties gain power. Second, they say that the BNP is bad. 

Let's work through both. Their first plan on radical Islamist parties doesn't work for three reasons. Reason number one: there's a huge problem with this argument, which is they are right; Islamist parties will get some power. But the groups that are voting for Islamist parties would never be the student protesters on our side of the house. The reason why is that the vast majority of people involved in the student protest movement were liberal, democratic, or university students. They are overwhelmingly secular or not highly religious, which means if the organizers of the protests don't run for office, then the people who would have voted for them are not suddenly turning to radical Islamist parties because they believe that as a legitimate conception of democracy.
  
Therefore, the logical alternative is they move towards secular parties like, for example, the BNP. Response number two: it's unlikely that Islamist parties gain substantial power because there's a game-theoretic disincentive to vote for these parties. The reason why is that you know that the percentage of votes that goes to any individual Islamist party is low, especially because there are multiple of them and they split the vote. So you, as a voter, have a game-theoretic incentive to vote for a secular party that's likely to get a greater share of votes because that's more likely to affect the outcome of the election. 
CO.

<poi>
Why you distinguish between why are you saying that the BNP is the secular party? They're clearly the non... 
</poi>

no, no, no. So just to be clear, the claim I'm making here is that the radical, fundamentalist Islamist parties are not likely to be in power. Our claim is that the BNP is preferable.
  
This deals nicely with opening opposition's second plan. They say the BNP is short-termist and corrupt. A lot of problems here. Response number one: the BNP can be held accountable on our side of the house for the specific advocacy, criticism, and protesting of powerful organized movements. The BNP has incentives to listen to these people, even if they're not involved in politics, to ensure there is not another wave of revolution. 
  
Secondarily, the BNP understands that it has to earn the support of these voters because these voters, for all the reasons opening opposition identifies, are distrustful of mainstream parties—and legitimately so. So the BNP, unlike student organizers, cannot take these votes for granted, which means the BNP has strong incentives to rebrand itself, to internally purge corrupt members through its party. 
  
But thirdly, and this is critical, we are fine with gridlock. Here's why: because the biggest problem facing Bangladesh is not that you don't pass policy. The biggest problem facing Bangladesh is that an authoritarian movement gains power, does not have checks on its capacity to legislate, and turns Bangladesh into a secondary authoritarian movement. Gridlock is good because it moderates policy, even if Islamist parties are counterbalanced by secular parties. 
All of which means that it is good to have gridlock. On their side of the house, it can increase the probability of backsliding and military violence. We propose.
</dpm>

<dlo>
First, I want to clean out the PM claim on the likelihood of a coup. It's extremely unlikely that you’ll get a military coup. One: the military lacks funding. FBI is declining. The military cares about funding because democratic institutions actually favor the military. When parties compete against each other in the potential of a democracy, they are also likely to compete for the military's favor, which is why they allow me to give the military funding. However, this depends on having access to foreign investment. 

Second, the youth movement is a substantial unifying force, and the military doesn't want to go against the entire unifying force of student leaders and a young youth movement. That's why the militant chief Waka Zaman gave concessions.

To the transitional government under you, this is why the youth movement is specifically less likely to be anti-military after this point. The military struggles to challenge the youth movement. In contrast, the military probably has substantial capacity to challenge the BNP that doesn't have the same degree of legitimacy that the youth movement has. As a consequence, a military coup is anything but more likely on their side. 

Third, there's likely to be Western leverage. Bangladesh is in the middle of a $4.7 billion IMF bailout, and the biggest market for its goods is the EU, which is looking for a trade deal because in 2029, the EU's favorable trade conditions are set to expire, meaning Bangladesh can't export to them. However, the West will not use its leverage against a coup if the BNP is in power. This is because Khaleda Zia's administration was extremely unpopular among the West, precisely for engaging in the same kinds of democratic backsliding as Sheikh Hasina. So, military coups might actually be favorable for China or the West in the presence of the BNP but not in the presence of a transitional government. 

So, anything like a military coup is more likely on their side. Now, for this slip to work, we don't have to prove that a military coup is more likely than not. The risk of a military coup is a massive detrimental impact to Bangladesh because investors are terrified of military governments and they pull out capital, meaning Bangladesh struggles to transition its economy. In expected value terms, this impact is larger than any of the other impacts in opening government. 

Let's talk about the plausible alternatives in this debate, beginning with the BNP. The first point I want to make is that the BNP will not face political competition in the short run. So, I think our side agrees that the BNP will be in power, but critically, it will not be held accountable. It will not face political competition, and there's not substantial risk of youth leaders re-entering politics because of how the BNP will establish itself as having an overwhelming advantage in politics. 

Reason one: they have a leg up in terms of funding. They have name recognition and existing stockpiles of funding, plus large amounts of corruption from being in opposition for a while. This funding is critical to finance electoral campaigns. Here's the thing: youth leaders have a unique moment of legitimacy right now after the July Revolution, but people's memories of revolution are short-lived. The reason why is Bangladesh is facing an economic transition; it is at the risk of a foreign exchange crisis, which is why it is experiencing a bailout from the IMF. 

Youth unemployment is at record highs. What does this mean? It means when the BNP has substantial amounts of funding, youth leaders, if they re-enter politics in a future moment when people experience economic crisis and don't have immediate memories of the July Revolution, they won't just look at a youth leader and automatically think they are good. Funding is extremely important in elections. Funding is also important because voting is hard in this economic situation. Li's argument was not just that young people are motivated to vote; it's that they don't have the capacity to vote because the youth union is high. 

You don't have the time to take off work in order to stand in line to vote. This is ours and enough, and the BNP probably doesn't want to encourage young voters, precisely because, as Li's argument concludes, it is scared of them. So, the BNP is likely to make voting specifically hard. The same applies to the youth engaged in protests, but the youth are terrified to engage in a second protest. The protest already led to massive humanitarian losses; it was the military gunning down protesters. Even if it led to success at the end, the youth are tired of continuing to engage in future protests, so there isn't a substantial risk of protests. 

What this means is young people will struggle to turn out to vote, and the BNP's political power is likely to be entrenched because when it is in power, it will continue gaining access to funding by being the incumbent party, meaning future political competition is unlikely to threaten it. 

No, thank you. Third, the BNP's existing voter block is much less fractured. Historically, people who are worried about Indian intervention in Bangladeshi politics are people with more of an Islamist inclination, who have fought with the BNP, and their voter block is too fractured in the future, meaning other political parties will simply be absorbed by the power of the BNP. As a consequence, the BNP is unlikely to face large political competition in their best-case scenario if a coup does not happen. 

Why does this matter? Because the BNP is first because it meets all the PM's arguments on political competition or lack thereof. Political competition is asymmetrical. But second, let me listen to the BPM's arguments on young people and why the BNP will care to do that. First, the BNP will not care about them. What are the arguments here? One, they say youth voters are energized for the protest. This is an assertion. I demonstrated the substantial exhaustion among youth voters after the protest, combined with complacency about Bangladeshi politics, because these specific actions of the Awami League, for example, reservations for military members from the 1971 Revolution, are gone. 

There is a combination of complacency and exhaustion, which means youth voters aren't energized and aren't likely to turn up. The second mechanism is that student organizers have credibility and they have incentives to tell them to turn out to vote. Here's the problem: youth leaders are likely to back the BNP. Why is this likely to be true? In the absence of them coming into positions of power, it's because the BNP has a unique narrative. Khaleda Zia was arrested by Sheikh Hasina, which means they are able to use the narrative of saying, "We are the BNP, the party that was persecuted by the Awami League." 

This power gives a substantial amount of influence among young voters, so the initial involvement and endorsement of student organizers is for the BNP. Plus, the BNP has funds, so it has the ability to do things that pay them off, especially in this environment. That's often working against them. They are unlikely to continue spreading their values or encouraging young people to turn out. Plus, I have explained why young people don't have the capacity to even if they want to turn up, which is why turnout in Bangladesh continues to be low. They see there's a risk of coming out of retirement. 

I explained what in the long run, which is the potential time period that they will come out of retirement. One, they have damaged their credibility because they made a promise to exit politics, and two, they will not be seen in the same way because memories will be shortened. All of this means they will not be a meaningful challenge to the power of the BNP. The BNP will crush political competition. 

Here's the thing: youth leaders will be better than the BNP. Their argument is that youth leaders will be totally insulated from political competition. So, why will they give a care? Here's why: because youth leaders aren't a monolithic group. The fact that even some youth leaders are potentially ideological faces substantial amounts of pressure. 

No Thank you to ensure that basically youth leaders push for democratization and similar notes. Closing, you have anything. 

<poi>
Your own argument on why these leaders are non-monolithic; this is the precise reason why there's likely to remain political competition on our side, given that different factions of the organization movement probably back different parties, including the Islamist parties described to us. 
</poi>

No, but I've just given you a bunch of reasons why the BNP will beat all these potential parties. In a first-past-the-post system, strategic voting means that voters will always back a single party. The BNP will act as a shelling point, plus they will use brand loyalty to get them in, even if they have differing views. However, they are in politics. Even if they temporarily win, if one of them starts engaging in democratic backsliding, other youth leaders can turn against them and form parties of their own, which can drive political competition, which can help Bangladesh. 

Here's the argument that they totally missed from Li's speech: the BNP has strong economic connections with existing textile industries. Textile industries have backed them for a substantial amount of time, so they depend on them for their resources. They owe them favors; there are family members appointed to top positions in several textile industries that didn't want the Awami League to win. 

Why does this matter? Because Bangladesh needs to stop industrial policy favoring textile industries as wages rise in Bangladesh. It can no longer compete with countries like Ethiopia on textiles. Plus, Bangladesh is in the midst of an emerging market crisis and needs to transition up the value chain in order to grow. This growth is necessary to do things that create youth unemployment, even if the BNP cares about the youth; it cares about the funding it gets from corporate backers, which it can use to win way more votes than just the votes from the youth. 
This means the BNP will be structurally politically fucked up. We stand on opening opposition.
</dlo> 

<mg>
This speech will provide a variety of reasons to believe that even if students are uncorruptible, morally accountable, they will be ineffectual and they will cause the greatest degree of harm in this state. I want to start by positioning this extension against opening government. Opening government, I think, assumes that

Students are really likely to explain that young people will be almost automatically behind them, but then they also explain that there are a series of perception issues that might block young people out of power, which I think kind of mitigates the harms of their first issue. I think then, subsequently, it provides a series of good potential risks that could occur where students are, for instance, corrupt or overly radical. But I think this potentially requires a relatively uncharitable view of the incentives of these students, who I think, to their credit, are pretty pro-democracy, are pretty enlivened, and a subject for kind of accountability incentives that both teams. 

No, we will make a more modest, certain, and internally consistent plan. Regardless of the virtues of these students, if they pursue their demands, they will damage the legacy of the revolution and its attached political program, which is bad.

The first thing I want to explain is that the perception of these students is cynical, and opening opposition points to kind of generic reasons why people are suspicious of politicians, which I think are true. But I think there are some more specific reasons why people are likely to be particularly skeptical of students. Crucially, I think youth and radicalism is something that is viewed more fondly outside of politics than within, which is just to say that people understand things like youth and radicalism as virtues in many instances. But they also understand, for instance, that they were far more strident in their youth, that their views changed over time, that young people are still developing and do not always have well-formed ideological views, which I think is, in general, pretty bad in terms of young people getting elected and in terms of them attacking older people's votes. 

But I would additionally note that it is a barrier to collaboration with older people in politics. Like, I think it is quite likely that even probably pretty good politicians who are older, who are more experienced, are pretty skeptical of these young people, making it far more difficult for them to achieve their aims.

The second thing I want to note is that the specific demands—not all of them, but some of them—made by these young people are both unachievable and undesirable. I think this is probably a better explanation of the problems of these young people than opening government, who I think assumes that they'll do things that are particularly corrupt and particularly immoral. But we are just going to explain that if they pursue the political program outlined in their nine-point plan, that is bad.

What is their political program? A couple of things: Firstly, they want to fire tracks of police commissioners and superintendents involved in student casualties. Secondly, they want to fire tracks of vice chancellors of universities all across Bangladesh. And thirdly, they want to remove security personnel at large from university campuses in Bangladesh.

The first thing I'm going to do here is explain why those political positions are likely inflexible, and then I will explain why they are bad. The importance of explaining why they're inflexible shows why young people—no, thank you—will not kind of be strategic and adopt particular positions in order to avoid the sort of backlash. I'll explain later why they are inflexible.

Firstly, I would note that these things are highly public, highly published, that in the nine-point plan, which I think makes them relatively difficult to walk back because they are a stated ideological commitment. But secondly, I think that they likely believe them both ideologically but also incredibly emotionally because fundamentally these sorts of demands represent revenge on the kinds of people who students viewed as being particularly punitive or particularly immoral. That, I think, additionally means that this is likely an expectation of their peers in the movement, making it socially very difficult to avoid.

Additionally, though, I would think that the most radical young people are likely to be at the forefront of politics. Those are the people with potentially the most charisma; those are the people with the strongest belief that pushes them into political roles relative to more moderate young people. Finally, I think they probably have a pretty rational desire to disempower political enemies like vice chancellors and like police.

But I'm going to explain now why that is probably a very bad thing. So young people enter politics with a list of demands about disempowering people like vice chancellors. Like this, I think, is highly unachievable. I think that this is a set of people who are obviously incredibly empowered in society. They have access to incredibly important institutions like universities and police, and they are important—like obviously, it is important to have police in Bangladesh. And that means I think that they are particularly powerful enemies. 

And this provides to you, I think, a far more specific reason why things like civil resistance or more moderately institutional resistance is inevitable because the set of people specifically who these young people have upset are the ones who their political program irritates, who are the ones who their political programs continue to provoke. But I also note that these numerous enemies—like we're talking not just about powerful people but about like hundreds, probably thousands of police—these are people who are going to be motivated against these students.

Finally, though, I would note that this also alienates you from potential political allies because I think it's pretty unlikely that, for instance, the BMP is particularly keen on mass firing security from university campuses. I think a lot of, you know, adults are probably pretty like—they think security is a good thing to have in universities on some level. I'll take you in a second. All of that I think means that young people are likely to suffer in terms of getting traction in achieving their political goals. They're likely to be ineffective, and that I think is something which is far more likely to lead to the problems with youth engagement described by both opening teams. I'll take opening now. 

<poi>
If the impact is a loss of political support, if the impact isn't a loss, and just they lose political support, they lose the next election, abandon these policies.
</poi>

I already explained why they are likely to be theistic, why they could be strident and inflexible, but I also just explained why there are a series of less—like the things that are still bad, things like institutions refusing to cooperate with you, things like potential political allies refusing alliances with you.

The next thing I want to explain is that formal politics uniquely leads to division and conflict, which is that, and I wonder—I think this is actually kind of conceded by opening opposition, who says, "Well, it's fine if they become a bit corrupt because they just condemn their peers." Formal politics is more divisive in civil society firstly because you are required to take far more specific political positions, which opens up for more ground to disagree with each other, to have any differences. Secondly, politics is competitive, and you’re likely running against each other in things like pre-selections, and it's the kind of personalities that are trying to gain those spots, trying to gain media coverage. 

Thirdly, I regard that these are likely people with reputations as firebrands. They want to prove it by holding those around them accountable, by being particularly vocal in discussions. Why is this division so bad? It's the quickest route to absolutely destroy the credibility of this student movement. You require like one incredibly public statement to make people distrust these leaders, to make them, you know, to be more skeptical of them. Secondly, it splits the movement all the way down because the peers, the people who follow these leaders are likely to want to pick sides. And thirdly, it obviously just has an opportunity cost to becoming far more unifying civil society leaders.

I want to weigh civil society here because I think opening government is a bit vague about what civil society figures can actually achieve. Why is civil society important? Firstly, it's far more acceptable. Opening opposition tells you it's incredibly hard to vote in elections—there are enormous barriers—but things like social media, things like access to media, are incredibly inclusive and allow people to participate in politics far more easily. Important to be there.

But secondly, civil society is more resilient. It is harder to crack down on civil society figures because they are perceived as legitimate, because it's opposed by institutional actors, which means it's important to seize your notoriety to be in these civil society figures. A place where it's important to have powerful individuals within politics is probably already covered by individuals being motivated to vote, caring about politics in a historically unique way. Proud to propose.
</mg>

<mo>
Firstly, on the future political system of Bangladesh, secondly on stability, and why the BNP would be bad for it, as well as incredibly bad government. Let's start with the future political system of Bangladesh because we think the biggest hurdle in this debate isn't about who wins government the next time because what's happening at the moment is we have an interim government, and before we go to another general election, they're going to have an election before that to form a special assembly to rewrite the Bangladeshi Constitution and reform the government institutions of that country and The most important thing in this debate is who has the power to form the long-term constitution of Bangladesh and what the formation of government is going to look like. That very intuitively outweighs the rest of the debate. 
  
See, they're talking about all of the government structures that inform every single election into the future. What are the problems with Bangladesh's political system at the moment? First of all, the massive ring of elections. What was supposed to happen is that the government prior to an election would give up power to a caretaker government, such that they weren't in power during that election so that they couldn't rig it. The Awami League refused to do that, and that's why the BNP boycotted almost every election in the last decade. 

Secondly, there's an enormous amount of corruption in the Bangladeshi government. There’s an enormous amount of people who are appointed bureaucrats who continue to preserve their own ends. There's also an enormous amount of judicial problems. Judicial act members of the judiciary essentially act in line with political parties. All of them, of course, do mass resign in protest because the country wanted to bring back Sheikh Hasina after she had fled to India. 

There's an enormous amount of problems that need to be solved in this constitutional assembly, and currently, the interim government has established a large number of commissions under Muhammad Hasan and also with the involvement of the student leaders to reform these policies. Why is it all; Yes  

<poi>
Yeah, Yunus has a no-price? Do you think that the international actors are likely to want to negotiate with him or a University student?
</poi> 

Hassan isn't going to run in the next election; he's coming in as a caretaker, which is what he did in the last caretaker election about 20 years ago. But he's very explicitly a caretaker; he's not here to be a long-term political actor in Bangladesh. So why is it that then, why is it that it is necessary to have these people involved in the constitutional assembly? 
  
First of all, the existing forces in politics benefited from each of these systems, all of their allies. They were put in place by the existing political system, so they're incredibly unlikely to want to change it. But secondly, without a force, without a specifically large institutional force against this, it's likely that any smaller forces that OG talk about, like individuals or small groups—two or three running—would be able to get this team through. They're likely to be bought off or horse-traded by the larger parties. They're less likely to have an agreement on what this reform should look like. 

So even if they all agree there should be reform, if they don't agree on it, they're on net going to get outvoted. And also, they weren't involved in the creation of it. The student leaders got named Mohammad Hassan in that serve in roles with those commissions developing it, so they are the ones who are involved in development and can get it passed through. 
  
Why is it that they can only get this done if they are a party? First of all, being a part of the party is necessary for branding and selling your campaign. Secondly, like elections, it's a big business. You need operatives, you need money, you need ads, you need institutional capacity. You can't do this as two or three individuals. 

The next thing I want to prove is that other institutional power in Bangladesh is very, very rare because they keep going to other institutions. UN might support, but there's good  and I ask them to name them; they can't. But there's good structural reasons to believe there aren't a lot of other large institutions in Bangladesh that could form themselves into political parties. 

First of all, it was an authoritarian country. Secondly, the Awami League tried to position itself as a big tent party that included anyone, so they had an incentive to try and bring in any other institutions and align themselves with the Awami League. Thirdly, Bangladesh has been in chaos for many years. The initial protest against the quota system started in 2018, and in that context of chaos, it's very difficult to form institutional power.
  
So that means that there aren't a lot of other large institutions that could step into this gap. The best comparative, then, BNP or other smaller parties, opening government, says, "Well, students are seen as bad; they're seen as irrational; they're seen as too young." But the problem with this is that this party isn't just going to run students; they're going to bring other people in. For instance, they brought in Hanan in the short run. 

Also, they brought in a large number of university professors who actually designed the original system of reform. They worked with their own professors and military leaders, as opening opposition points out, military leaders who told the military to put down their arms, not to oppose this. And those people have almost nothing in common except for the fact that they were brought together by an anti-discrimination students movement. 

That is why they're likely to be taken seriously, and that also robs closing government, who, well, they're incredibly terrible, but they brought in a large amount of support. The key thing is that they are important for bringing those people together. I also want to note here, not only is it important that they're part of the constitutional assembly to solve all those problems, but it's also important that they are the first government afterwards. 
  
Because, as I allude to, the entire Supreme Court of Bangladesh was forced to resign because they were seen as trying to bring back Sheikh Hasina. That means that they're going to get to appoint the next set of justices who will make the first interpretations of the new Constitution that will serve as the baseline precedent against which that Constitution is interpreted, and that's incredibly important. 

They also set the norms of how it's interpreted, and if another party wins, they have an incentive to show that the new rules that they don't like are very bad and very difficult in order to manufacture consent to get them taken away. It's very important that they are not only involved in the right giver, but that they are the first party to interpret it and to appoint the justices who do so. 
  
What are the benefits of this? It means that you get a government that functions, which is important for your economics. It also means you get rid of the quota system, right? Which is not only unitarily but also incredibly bad for the functioning of government because you appoint a large number of freedom fighters to the system, not because they're good. 
 
And it crucially makes the Bangladesh Public Service not politically neutral because the freedom fighters that are appointed have political allegiances, and that means you don't have a neutral public service. That pretty much what way pretty intuitively over the rest of the debate. 
  
Second extension: Why is it that you why is it that you get more stability? Opening government says you will get the military... See, opening opposition pretty concisely points out the military explicitly allows them to come through. You're very unlikely to get a military coup. 
  
Why is it that the BNP would be incredibly bad? First of all, their leader, it's not clear he can legitimately run in charge on anti-corruption, and different courts are split over his actual legitimacy as a candidate. So that means that they're incredibly likely to be protests. Secondly, there's very likely to be huge protests when this aggressively pro-Muslim party wins, who has done terrible things to minorities in the past. 

Thirdly, your relationship with India is likely to be substantially worse, and they're likely to foment unrest on the ground. We already saw Indian forces in the country protecting Sheikh Hasina during the last revolution, and they have an incentive to foment chaos in the country in order to reestablish their influence. 

And I know these aren't the only reasons why you don't get stability. There are also reasons why the BNP is bad; like they are anti-Hindu, we should care about Hindus. They are anti-India; we should care about your relationship with India, your trade relationship, your security relationship. They have done corruption which is not only rampant, you can't legitimately run, but also you know corruption is bad. 

Additionally, I think it's important that these student leaders are there to be able to tamp down protests. Opening opposition says, "Well, the student leaders might do protests," but I think that's the lower impact argument because their protests, on net, have been pretty good and pretty reasonable. 

What's more important is the bad, more aggressive sets of protests that might come from other actors, which we think they're uniquely good at tamping down and stopping from becoming violent. First of all, we will still lie true if these people don't follow through on their promises. Secondly, they are powerful figures who can come out persuasively and urge people to calm down. But thirdly, the protests are more willing to negotiate with them. 
When they're in government, because they have a history of being receptive to protest, rather than, they will never listen," this protest will never work.
</mo>

<gw>
First, I'll explain why closing government wins the debate, and secondly, why the opposition bench loses. Firstly, why did we win the debate? I think we make kind of two contributions. The first is just explaining in substantial detail why these student leaders would be both bad at politics, but also, perhaps more importantly, good at civil society and impacting why that is a society and politics changing for us. The second, I think, is just outlining that most of these specific demands of the anti-discrimination student movement, in their highly publicized 9o P published like after deposing the cner, are bad.  
  
Of course, as this team might respond, some of those demands are like fine. For instance, asking for compensation for families of protesters who were killed—that's fine. But those kinds of demands are not sensationalist, nor are they radical. They're extremely unlikely to focus on campaigns of opposition or media, the things that they are held to by phoners and that are indeed in the spotlight in the media at the moment. Many of those demands are incredibly bad things, like firing huge tracks of police who are related to the universities or whose jurisdiction covers the universities where protest was suppressed.  
  
Even if those police were not directly involved, like they didn't kill a person, they just have jurisdiction over those universities. No security in universities, firing Huge CRA ofc, and a national ban on the Awami League unit. I think those policies are bad in a few respects. Firstly, I would oppose many of them on face value on their grounds alone. For instance, I don't think you should ban student movements of most political parties until they pass you an extremely high threshold. I think that is probably something we should be conservative about—not restricting free speech.  
  
I think police, who are often underpaid and not personally responsible for violence against students, who happen to be part of a systemically corrupt institution but don't have much choice in that, should not be fired from their jobs. I think those are immoral demands, and we should not stand for them. Secondly, those demands are literally impossible to fulfill. As Ellie points out, to no response, powerful enemies in the form of the whole police force is incredibly scary.  

This doesn't work, which at very worst for us is just an enormous opportunity cost of resources, a failure to get your policies passed. But also, my group is incredibly embarrassing and delegitimizing for these student protests and for all the civil society organizations and movements that we point out are attached to, where they can do good work out of politics. Maybe, for instance, you want to go into politics later. You can't; you have an initial track record of doing terrible things and failing to pass a policy.  

The responsible get from opening opposition in a POI is, firstly, well, if there's a risk of a coup, then you moderate. I think Ellie preempts this in quite a lot of detail. We explain that you aren't rational, but it's very unlikely that there's a risk of a coup on their side. You're not thinking about the future in that extent. That it's incredibly embarrassing and maybe, for instance, backlash or political violence in the short term to backtrack on your established demands.  
 
And importantly, even if some people are rational in this way, the most prominent leaders of that movement will not be. The second plan they make is if you don't moderate, you're going to lose the election. But firstly, I would note if that harms the movement of anti-authoritarian student protesters, regardless, even if it's true that you lose the election by having these demands, it still hurts that movement. It hurts, for instance, initial movements by students, any student in Bangladesh against corruption, against authoritarianism in the future—they are tainted with that brush, which it is incredibly easy for opposition parties and media outlets to keep up on.  
 
But secondly, maybe at the very best, this hurts OG, but it doesn't hurt us because we explain why involvement in civil society matters. And importantly, you can also run more successfully for politics later. For instance, you could run more successfully for politics later if you're hard with this brush. If, for instance, you have demands that are bad, that means that you can't operate in civil society as well. But finally, I think some people probably still do win.  
  
And I want to know if even if you only get one politician representing this constituency in Parliament, you cause huge amounts of chaos. You shift the Overton window; you mean that people discredit other more sensible leaning policies, like restrictions on police powers. That there's gridlock in Parliament—all of that is terrible. Why does this then get us above opening government? I think it represents a fairly generic criticism of young revolutionaries on the basis of their radicalism, but also the tempting vices of politics like corruption.  

But the problem with this is, firstly, claims in terms of entire commitments to corruption, while true, seem relatively symmetric given the features that this team themselves points out in terms of the political system in Bangladesh at large. But secondly, radicalism, of course, as our open says, can be bad but can also be good, right? Like deeply radical movements, like, for instance, anti-colonial movements or feminism, are both good ideologically but are deeply attractive to people, even though they ask for very large changes in the status quo.  
 
We explain that the changes we're asking for are bad, which means they are both unpopular but also undesirable. But finally, we impact the alternative. Civil society not just politics, which makes society and makes government better—we win.  
  
Let's now talk about opening opposition. Opening opposition, I think, is dangerously pessimistic in their vision of the status quo. They say the BNP will have no political competition without students to push back. The reason for this is because it's prohibitively hard for the youth to vote. The BNP receives money from lobbyists; they'll always get young people on their side. Students don't. This is dangerous because it's a self-defeating argument for opening opposition. If the BNP is so powerful, then students contesting elections will fail regardless.  
  
One attempt to bridge this gap is to say, well, people care a lot about youth and revolution. Now you have to take that opportunity. That is insufficient for a few reasons. Firstly, it could last that momentum, right? Like if you present yourself as political critics, part of civil society, it is likely that the actual authoritarian momentum will lose. But secondly, if opening opposition is right that there is an appetite for change, that doesn't mean there's an appetite for supporting this specific political party, especially because their power is in opposing the AL, not in creating and endorsing their own political platform, which I know requires many different skills and virtues.  

Finally, they say the BNP has a textile contract, which is bad. One, this is self-correcting; yes, lobbying is powerful, but votes matter from individual people whose wages are going down. There are other competing businesses that join, like eristic contracts with fire. Or secondly, if the textile industry is so corrupt, then that means that other parties who are established also need money and also take that money.  
  
Finally, let's probe about closing opposition. Firstly, they say the young people in politics will help the future political system in terms of changes to the Constitution. One, it's unlikely that those young people are elected or listened to. If they are elected, for the reasons we give, they don't have the ads of the institutional capacities that this team describes as necessary; that is overpowering. Secondly, Yunus has decreased corruption massively, and it's likely that its oversight, as the caretaker government, will make sure that the special assembly is good, that it's not done corruptly, and so on.  

But finally, they say, well, the students have united lots of different parts of society. That's true with regards to taking down the AL; it's not true with regards to rewriting the Constitution, where you want usually different interests. If you are the military as opposed to if you are students. They say next that the BNP will fail. Firstly, in your opening, he says they guarantee success no matter what. But secondly, the barriers they put up are transitory. They say the leader is bad; you get a new one again. Yunus has massively decreased corruption in Bangladesh.  
  
They say your relationship with India is bad. I'll fit that; it's way worse. Because India hated the student protesters, sent police to target them and bring them down. Is your relationship with India, or rather, does it hurt it? Because obviously, India doesn't like the student protesters; it doesn't like it when the special assembly supports them and has them in their midst.  
</gw>
  
<ow>
The youth leaders win elections, and secondly, on policy, they implement when they win, good or bad. Firstly, on youth leaders, whether they'll win elections, the first problem, the first reason why I think this is pretty obvious that we explained is that they have already proven themselves to be highly effective political organizers. This seems dismissive about the amount of effort required; it is the protest place for long periods of time and involves more than just organizing people on the street, but organizing highly complex networks of people who cooperate around an infrastructure system that cracks down on those students. 

And then after that, being able to negotiate the process of establishing a relatively democratic transitional government in order to manage the process of moving towards democracy and establishing a series of missions in order to do it and analyze the problems that existed in the previous system, which could suggest to you that these protesters are efficient organizers and are likely to be good at winning elections. Secondly, we think the BNP themselves have lost a lot of institutional knowledge without winning elections. 
 
I think that while they are probably likely to be effective, they're unlikely to be unbeatable. That is firstly because they've been disempowered by the Awami League; they've been in long-term opposition for decades and suggest they haven't had that much infrastructure around. Secondly, and additionally, they've boycotted elections for a long period of time; the infrastructure around elections has likely been lost.
  
Now, for opening opposition, we agree with opening opposition that in the counteract without students, it's likely that this BNP is going to win the election without student opposition. What Matt says is not that this is never going to happen, but that if it did happen, it would be bad because the BNP isn't a whole party. Thirdly, their unpopular policies are outweighed by a series of very popular features. That is firstly coming from outside the establishment because, although it's true that people have some skepticism about the group of students and whether or not they'll be anti-democratic, they know for certain that the BNP has been corrupt. 
 
It's led by a person who is currently being charged for money laundering; its previous experience has been previously called out for corruption, which guarantees them some amount of legitimacy. Secondly, the people in Bangladesh want democracy. Living in a dictatorship, having at least one party that is working hard towards democracy is a meaningful draw for people, even if they have a series of unpopular policies.
  
Thirdly, the students aren't a super racialized religious party, which is a characteristic of the BNP that has alienated a lot of people in Bangladesh, who see that racialization as something that causes division, escalates tensions in the region of India, and is detrimental towards the likelihood of getting trade and economic development in the future. Finally, they're not children; these are university students—well, pretty old university students—who have been politically organizing for a long time and who have experience in some level of politics at the youth level. 

People are likely to be adept. Let's do some way; so, it says it won't work. This is obviously going to be a hard thing to achieve, but now is the best time to achieve it of any time in the future. The Awami League is split; the Awami League is on the run, and their leader has left India. They lack a firm alternative towards the leader, someone who can organize them. They have a lot of momentum at the moment, and the BNP is at a critical point where it is also unlikely to succeed for the reasons that I previously explained about the lack of infrastructure around elections. 
  
So now is the only time that it could work, and that's when it's in so rearing around the likelihood. Then I think we do prove the highlight of success; in fact, this is considered by the Prime Minister, who claims that they will be so popular and unbeatable, they will have unchecked power, which will result in them becoming evil, which therefore makes government a knife of hope. 
  
But secondly, even if they don't, it's still good for them to have some level of power. Firstly, because it makes better accountability on the BNP and the Awami League if they are the ones to end up in power. But secondly, it's a boost for building momentum towards future political successes as you build institutional knowledge around elections and toward the future. 
  
Next, let's talk about whether or not their policies are bad. They outline that some of these policies might have negative consequences. Firstly, many people who they want to remove from power are extremely unpopular. For example, police commissioners in Bangladesh are notorious for being permissive of things like police officers engaging in violence and engaging in rape; they are people who others also want to see removed. 
 
Secondly, it's often necessary to remove these figures in order to remove corruption. A lot of these people are aligned with corrupt political figures from the Awami League, which makes removing them necessary in order to disrupt the infrastructure that allows corruption to continue. Because even if you change who's in power and the BNP comes into power, if you permit the lower levels of corruption to continue to permeate the system, the BNP then becomes the corrupt political party that's in power. 
 
Thirdly, it's necessary to gain trust in government as a result of the aforementioned problems—the fact that they are corrupt and the fact that they are associated with previous members of the Awami League and the fact that they're unpopular. If you want trust in any new government, you need to remove the infrastructure of the old government; it's unpopular. 
 
Finally, the most important for justice: these people are evil people who deserve punishment. The student league should be considered a terrorist organization; the Awami League youth group should be disseminated and destroyed. They are a group of people who deserve justice to come to them. Could these youth leaders finally then be flexible even in the instances where these policies are bad? 
 
Firstly, they have explicitly set up a series of commissions to redesign their policy platform with experts involved. That legitimizes changes in refinement that occur in policy—not as backsliding, but as academic refinement on the policies they have established, which makes that change legitimate. But secondly, they're likely to believe in that flexibility and not be so heavy-handed because they're working with a new set of people. They're working with people like Hassan, the leader of the government, and the figures and academics they have put into these commissions in order to redefine their policy. They have a revealed preference towards redefining and establishing a new political platform that is likely to have positive outcomes even in the episode policy badly gets fixed. Okay 

<poi>  
15 seconds, OG already gave 5 reasons: the BNP is accountable. students are immensely advertised why the BNP race? BNP must satisfy protestor demands for politicians from entering; they can still operate outside politics, and the BNP needs to prove its change from the past. This beats your extension directly.
</poi> 

It doesn't; Allowing the BNP to come into power at a moment of unique political back and crisis and high instability with a system of corruption already in place means that none of those democratic abilities exist. They might have potential pressure from young people or from other political parties, but if they rig the next election after this next election that they win, they don't get any of those better outcomes. 
 
But if you believe that's true, then the BNP should have accountability to get better accountability when there is more youth representation in Parliament. Next, to respond to opening government: first, they say this is going to empower parties that recognize that people have these leaders. Firstly, this is directly contradicted by their later claim which states leaders will be so popular they will end up having unchecked power. 

Secondly, these people are likely to be skeptical of anyone protecting the branding of being the consequence of the revolutionary movement. Next, they say that student leaders will have too much unchecked power and will become corrupt in the end. Firstly, if there's any meaningful degree of skepticism, that explains where the democratic ability on leaders comes from. 
  
Like, if you believe the BNP is likely to be successful—or at least a pushback, like they say—you should believe that there is pressure that forces them to continue to be democratic because there is someone pulling them out and forcing them to be better. How are they likely to go about gaining their legitimacy? Firstly, by doing the things they said about abolishing the quota system, which only makes sense. Secondly, by gaining the backing and approval of various groups who support them in the process of revolution, like university academics and the commissions they set up. 

Thirdly, by maintaining that commitment to democracy into the long term. So if you believe that the BNP is a meaningful opposition, it explains what youth leaders will continue to be long-term. If they do win, then the BNP winning is good; the BNP is horrible firstly they can do horrible to minorities, Secondly they is led by a corrupt person, thirdly and escalates tensions. But also, better make best. Proud to oppose
</gw>