Motion: This House Believes That China should seek to curb debt at the expense of economic growth.

<pm>
PM Speech Transcript:
We and the opening government believe that Keynesian economics can only work in so far that you actually have the needs for these roads. Have the needs for these cumin states investments in the first place? The problem is, once you already have developed enough cities, enough roads, enough infrastructure and stuff like that, the additional marginal benefit of investing in the economy like this is going to fruit you less. How you say economical benefits under ourselves. We believe that in this sort of scenario, then the transition in the rational transition of how you say countries like China and what countries have done needs to become how you say, more fiscally conservative, in a sense. But notice that this is not how you say. This is not actormotion, because so this means that the majority of impacts that we're going to prove to you is going to also rely on lives of people in China also lives on people over the world who can suffer an economical crisis, which is very likely for people on the path for spending more than we can actually say, and stuff with that couple of points in my speech. One is why countries in One Belt, One Road, and countries that China has influence over will be fucked over more second of how this interacts with dollarization, and why this necessarily leads to economical crisis, or at least crisis of liquidity, which is very harmful. And fourthly, why the environment will get the brunt of it, and why we cannot afford this in the status quo. 
So why is the risk of collapse first, very obviously likely, at least, to the economical turmoil, then going into another crisis. So we believe that this debt and Alliance debt is required by a large sum of money, which is not trivial by any means. It is also how they say. There is also a large domino effect that can happen in this sort of scenario where a lot of countries are connected with China, either by China holding their debt, or China holding investment in their country, or they're owing money to China, which is the risk of collapse, is also risking to collapse everybody around it also that how you say growth is necessarily slowing down. This is not something that how you say you can keep at seven to 8% which is the highest China has, which necessarily means that at some point, this is the austerity of capitalism. Sometimes you cannot grow more than something at a certain percent. But still, on our side of the house, we don't believe that growth is 0% growth is lower, obviously, but this means that China, with the other R side of the house, thinks much more how you say strictly whether the project is worthwhile to invest in whether how you say spending this money is actually going to bear with fruit and not how do you say investing in a how you say country like Montenegro, who everybody said that is not going to be able to return to money and stuff like that. And this becomes even more important when I go into my next speech to notice that the Chinese foreign policy, the thing that is likely to become, there are several hubs, is a lot of spending on foreign policy, which is like a Belt and Road Initiative and stuff like that. The largest issue, yes, 


<poi>
like, who should the policies in support and why? 
</poi>

I mean, we support everything. Look at the issue. The issues. The most likely thing that they're going to come they're going to cost spending. The most likely scenario where they cost spending is to cut into large projects that are inefficient, either inward inside of the country, building a lot of infrastructure there, then only to their own, how you say, companies and so what exactly, or secondly, to the foreign countries and governance established, I think China has done this, doing this a bit recklessly, in terms of how you say, noticing and like, accepting things that will not necessarily bring them that as much money, but will bring them influences of that. We believe that under the status quo, where you how to say, have a loss of belief in Chinese currency and stuff like that, and loss of belief in Chinese economy, which can happen if you the depth how do you say starts starts going up. 
We believe that this breeds more meddling, more how to say, tensions between China and countries that owe money to China, because this is their only way to get liquidity to actually pay off the debtors and actually continue on the path of not economic crisis, which means overall, for the countries that are involved with China, this will be much worse, insofar that China will khadisa Push much more for regime changes, meddling, horrible policy that will benefit the Chinese government, but not the government of these countries in in a sense of a way but notice that also can’t we see, why are they not doing it now? Oh. They could do it on both sides. Notice that this is a risk strategy, because breeds antagonism. But this suddenly becomes much more significant when this currency is the thing that is going to currency make your economy collapse or not collapse. And there are several houses, there's risks connected to this. But if they do it without any reason, they would how to say, have suffered harmfully. They have to do it because they have to have liquidity. They have to have money to pay it off. This means it's much more interesting interest of them to start bullying countries and be horrible, which is horrible because this is not Negro motion.
Second of all dollarization, and this is a big issue starting with this, but that's fine. So we believe the majority of debt is usually correlated between the foreign currency, and currently the largest like trading currency in the world is dollar and stuff, and it's not likely to change in the future, which means that everything that China has is already correlated. It's almost always correlated with Yuan. And how Yuan interacts with the dollar. If people start losing currency in the belief that the Chinese government is in cars, isn't going to print as many is going to control therefore their their monetary policy. In a good way, or that they're going to be able to pay their debts. This means that the valuation that currency devaluation in comparison to dollar happens, which means that it expediates The crisis that is already coming, which means that after a certain point, you reach a point of no return where people stop believing that Yuan is going to be a fruitful currency, because in the future, China will have to print more money, do horrible stuff, and stuff like that. This is foreign help, because every loan that is now connected to Yuan, similarly, which is connected to One Belt One Road, is also going down with this and fucking over these countries in in in the beginning. And also this means that there is a lot a lot less foreign loans and foreign investment wanting to give money to China with the rise in debt and with the threat. And also, this is a correlation with the threat of US actually meddling and starting to to fuck you over, because this is a vested interest of the US under the status quo and will probably continue. So this is why US might be able to do this, but China can't do this under the status quo in the short situation. But notice that usually the expense, where this comes at the expense of is if you want to push for economical growth despite the rise in cost, need to do value the cost elsewhere and push for growth elsewhere. This usually means environmental degradation, which is horrible, because China is on the path of bettering the environment, because people have pushed for, like like, horrible smoke against horrible small that is happening in Shanghai, that we all experienced, went to zero and stuff like that. And we need we believe. We believe in under this sort of situation, it's much more likely for China if they cannot sustain when they say, if they have to push for returning money under after some settled time, to reverse the policies, to open more coal plants and stuff like which is horrible, because if we believe that climate science, we should in the next 10 years, if you don't curb our emissions, this means we fuck over the whole world, and especially the developing world. Who will be worse? Feel the world be worse off on the research journey. So under their side, we have couple of problems. First of all, the risk of economical crisis toppling down a lot of people, which we are bound to have because of the economy operates on boom and bust cycles. If it comes from China, it will fuck over many more countries. And secondly, if we don't curb the environmental degradation, which is likely to not happen if we if if this policy doesn't pay, anybody likely to happen if this policy doesn’t pass means that we we reverse something damaged humanity and make us so this where you should go to opening government. Thank you.
</pm>

<lo>
</lo>

<dpm>
Let’s be very clear on two things. The first one is, what do we support? Opening opposition correctly pointed out that they do not have to defend every single policy that China enacts in the status quo. In a similar fashion. What we can say that we will probably prioritize curving back policies which have the most detrimental harm, in accordance to the logic you hear in our first page. What is this? Probably one of the examples would be the curving of the massive overproduction of steel and coal in the global economy. Probably it will be a curving of housing loans, which have grown exponentially in China, especially over the last five years, less so than shadow banking, which has decreased, in fact, over the last two to three years. But as Milo says, we would in fact do both. The second thing then, therefore, is, what is the context this is this debate is basing because what you hear in the previous speech is a growth mischaracterization of both the state of the Chinese but also the global economy, now, in terms of the global economy. Well, China's expansionary policies made a lot of sense in the decade of the global recession. At this point, you have growth rates of largely increasing 3% a year in the Western world. At the same time with Chinese growth has, anyways, slowed down. 
Secondly, but the only reason they give us on this, yeah, but this might be what's actually keeping up global growth, but to an extent that Chinese Chinese investments do, do incentivize growth, the disregard the analysis Milos gives at the beginning of his speech, I mean spending uncontrollably in building roads, building houses, building infrastructure, makes a lot of sense. At a point where you have very few appeals. When the economy is relatively developed, it makes less and less sense. That is why you have numerous ghost cities, an illustrative example of what I'm talking about in China. But crucially, what this means is the construction companies which built those ghost cities cannot sell those apartments, and they did take on debt to be able to build those apartments. 
Now there are two options. Option one, those companies will default. There is a limited shock to their suppliers or two. And what exists in the status quo? The Chinese government essentially forgives or pays off the debt on their behalf. Now this makes sense at a point in which you have growth which is based on a strong multiplier analysis. He gives not responded to. However, when your growth is based on also largely financing vanity project with limited ROI, there's only so much money you have, the only real response we get to this is China has significant FX reserves. What at least two responses to this? Firstly, a lot of these risks in the economy are systemic, as we point out. So because a lot of them are internal, which means that someone can pay their debt, it cascades down the economy, which means a lot of these risks are very, very correlated. But secondly, just a point of numbers, Chinese foreign currency reserves have been decreasing. They're around $3.1 billion I Googled this yesterday. Check if you don't believe me, the level of debt, as you saw in the influence, is somewhat normal, 40 trillion. There is a question of scale. Considering my explanation of risk, you have a very, very high level of risk. 
Now, the one response they could make, but they haven't made implicitly, but if you read it to your note, you can believe it is yet. But this is different once they are investing in developing countries, because there are the multiplier logic I described could still apply at least for those countries. A few things I want to say. Firstly, a lot of these projects aren't financed on an economic basis, but they're more finance on a political basis. That's why a lot of these countries have not been able to pay off Chinese debts in for a lot of these investments into part of one Belmont Road, Eritrea being a large example of this, were a few major infrastructure areas were nationalized by the Chinese government. The problem is, sure you're able to get your debt back that way, but you build a project that was relatively unsustainable to begin with, so hence you won't be making recouping that investment in any possible way. Secondly, there's a lot of other bad things to this, like propping up dictatorial regimes, like low benefits for the local populations, which they do not take into health. Then the final point on the risk of a global trade war, if anything, I will point out that the trade war with China is exactly a result of this kind of policy. So when US politicians, and it isn't just Donald Trump, a lot of reputable politicians beforehand that pointed out that China is effectively a currency manipulator. The reason from where that stands is this sort of policy. So if anything, ramping back on this would be would not only contribute to a more sustainable global system, but would what would what would contribute to a disengagement in harsh relations with the People's Republic of China. 
So therefore, on a lot of issues which exist. One thing I do want to point out that on our side of the house, you will still have a large level of growth in the Chinese economy. Why is this the case? A few reasons. One, as I pointed out, they did conveniently build a lot of infrastructure over the past past several decades. Secondly, you have a large domestic demand that is fairly organic. So capitalism, for all its worst things, has managed to pull out 800 million people out of poverty in the PRC over the last couple of decades. But this also means there's very few left to pull out of poverty, which means you again get a declining ROI, as we point out. I'll take closing in 20 seconds. What this crucially means, then, is that you have a level of demand which was able to keep this level of growth trivially. Also you just have a lot of people, 1.3 million billion people, makes up for a lot of demand. You have a relatively strong private sector in the current firms that are not exposed to the kind of over leveraging we have described in our speech. So you will get a lot of growth. You will get a lot of growth happening on both sides. It will just be slightly lower on ours, at the expense of overall stabilization, closing. 


<poi>
That is only problematic if you can’t pay it we on closing opposition believe in modern monetary theory, you can always just pull in for money to pay the debt with.
</poi>

Yeah I mean then you end up? Yes, and that's an interesting theory. One thing I would point out is a problem with it. In a largely exported driven economy like the Chinese one, you will get branded a currency manipulator. Hence you will end up with huge taverns on your goods. So sure you can print the money, but it will essentially be worthless in the economy you want to describe. It's still a really interesting theory, just poor economic knowledge. 
Anyways, further on this, then what essentially the result of the policy. One other thing I do want to point out is in terms of internal Chinese stability, something Milos points out that never gets a response to, which is a lot. So one point he makes is on the environment and how overgrowth in China is damaging to the global environment, and as much as the argument is boring, like all arguments about the environment, is not a reason why it shouldn't be credited. The second thing I would point out is that the broader populace is also, to an extent, supportive of this, where they are willing to accept lower economic growth, or, let's say, less smoke in their cities. So you will have a large buy in of the Chinese population. That means the the CCP will have no, no sort of large issues in implement this policy. So overall, the Chinese economy is drastically over leveraged. It is at risk of default of large companies in the public sector. Probably the only way to solve it is, as closing all points out, there are many issues which I describe in the answer to my POI, very powerful.
</dpm>

<dlo>
Thank you. I want to talk about three things in this speech. First, I want to talk about the plausibility of default. Secondly, I want to talk about the international effects of this policy. And lastly, I want to talk about domestic Chinese effects to begin with, plausibility of default. I want to engage with each argument that they provided as to why they think default is going to happen. The first reason that they provided was that there's too much investment in fruitless Uber projects, and as a consequence, you default. As a result. The difficulty with this argument is, as series concedes himself that they have securitized a significant amount of debt, so there are physical objects which are the collateral for that debt, which they can claim in the instance of a default or a failure to pay a loan. Siri's claim here is that these aren't productive assets. But I want you to consider the wide range of these kind of assets. Includes these extra long Sri Lankan ports, which are essential for shipping in the region, includes things like the development of industry, which is Central Europe, which is the underdeveloped region, which has massive potential for growth. So it's not enough for Siri to just assert to us that these are bad projects. And furthermore, if things get really bad, you could just sell off that asset in the future to recoup that debt. So that wasn't a proper response. 
The second thing that they identified in their thanks is that they built too much, too much infrastructure within China itself. Look, China's already caught on to this. When ghost city started to appear in the 1990s the Chinese government started to step back because they realized that they couldn't populate all the infrastructure spending that they have no thank you. So that's just not true. That is not the status quo. And furthermore, I think it's completely reasonable for John and I to say that we should support economic growth in different ways. So, for instance, train workers in order to build a more productive economy in the long run. 
What was the solution that we provided on our side of the house? I think this is fairly sensible. Sensible in the case of this debt is USD. You can sell the USD denominated debt that the US government already wants you to be able to pay that off. No. Thank you. In terms of printing out rift, I think that's a fairly sensible solution, because in many of these circumstances, inflationary effects aren't as large as they suggest. No. Thank you. Their claim is that the inflation means that they will be have tariffs put on them. But I think this is remarkably unlikely for a couple of reasons. 
The first reason I want to point out their thank you is because in many of these circumstances, China was previously a currency manipulator, but only ever switched for their own domestic reasons as they transition towards a more skilled economy and external pressure never backed up. The second thing that I want to point out is that the implication of their policy is giving that win to Trump. So the long run, they're going to lead to those same types of tariffs, which are going to be equally harmful and massively damaging. So the takeaway at the end of this argument is that default isn't that likely, and we can solve it in other ways. Why then do we need to corrupt the our side? Because even if you need to back off, eventually, problems do exist in Europe. They say that they don't. But look at populism leading to massive trade tariffs around the world, Brexit and other trade wars, which are likely to inflame the economy at the current situation, particularly for investors who see other countries and country as an investment risk, given the fascism that is rising. 
Claim Number two international effects, I want to start off with the easy claims to deal with on the opening opposition side. First, we say that this leads to bullying countries. This is the status quo. Regardless of whether or not they're invested in a board, they will always act in a geopolitically manipulative way. And the reason why is because, as identified OBOR is a political project as well, so bullying will happen regardless. For instance, in Australia, the Chinese government literally funded political parties to try and change the democratic outcomes of those situations. So I think that this kind of interference would happen regardless. But the second thing that I want to point out is that OBOR is actually massively beneficial, if that facilitates global trade, even if you take losses in the short run, both personally and on the surrounding countries who are part of a war, the connection of that trade route means that there's radically more infrastructure to trade along the route itself, meaning that Sri Lanka can easily trade to Europe and Africa, which facilitates their growth in the long run. No thank you. Lastly, I want to point out that it's probably too late for us to back out on World War. Many countries have already reoriented their economies by putting massive amounts of government spending into building infrastructure or into this project, so that will just be a sub cost that is wasted and still hurts those countries, in fact, more so to back off now.
Next we talk about the environment. No, thanks. I know the easy response here on the environment is that China is actually one of the most environmentally responsible countries in the world. They signed the Paris Accords. No thank you. And actually comply with them, and they have the greatest amount of investment in green energy in the world. And do you know what happens when you reduce their economic growth? They have less money to put into green energy. No, thank you. Green Energy is a better solution, because the collective action problem which faces the world will exist regardless of whether China decreases the emissions and perhaps installs it from doomsday in 10 years to 12 years. The more viable solution is to allow every country transition into a better system. So what do we tell you in John's speech? John. Speech was very particular, because it explained to you the massive harms of approved from this policy, that the reduction of production in steel and oil, for instance, isn't one that is fruitless, but rather is one that's going to lead to direct knock on effects where other countries who buy those goods no thank you for manufacturing of their own goods, will no longer be able to facilitate their own trade. So as a massive effect around the economy, policies like cracking down on shadow banking industry actually means that people who have the mortgages leveraging to shadow banking will lose the mortgages, and therefore that will cause a massive decrease in consumer confidence and consumer investment policies such as, sorry, so the policies that are likely to come out from the Open Government are likely to cause larger financial harms in the larger and decrease the amount of investor competency at large perfect. Closing.


<poi>
The productivity of the Belt and Road Initiative depends on all of it succeeding. The things are not separately as valued. So when one of them fails, that leads to the question.
</poi>

no, that's incorrect, because the infrastructure still exists. Even if the industry within a particular country fails, the way of trying to move goods between them still exists, and that means that surrounding countries who rely on that trade network are stable, still able to leverage that by a bit. 
What is the harm in international sphere? I think that the problem is that this causes a massive justification for the trade war. So this means that populists like Trump are likely to be able to sell this narrative again and again, which reduces economic growth again, and particularly given the fragile state of the economy, this will lead to significant knock on effects that will hurt everyone. Lastly, on domestic Chinese effects, they claim that investor confidence is going to fall. I have a few different responses. First of all, I want to point out that you can create massive growth within China by this policy, because even though this may be a short term hit, things like printing out more Iran will actually decrease the cost of them exporting goods, which means that there's more foreign investment that goes in because they become a more productive manufacturer. So it's actually likely that you get increased investment because they become better exporters. But moreover, we told you that this leads to less loans when state loan enterprises and other banks start to fail, that means that they become reluctant to provide loans in the fear that they might fail. So that stalls the entire Chinese economy, which is, by the way, a massive purchaser of the global economy, both collapsing the Chinese economy and international economy. 
The last thing I want to mention is that this is probably quite bad, because Xi Jinping is going to lose a lot of domestic popularity, and when transitions happen, that leads to lots of corruption. Purchase. Their claim is, ah, but we reduce smoke, so people will be happy. The only way you reduce smoke is by cutting a massive amount of cars in Beijing and Shanghai, which would never happen because that stalls our economy. What is the takeaway from top half of this debate, while opening government has good intentions, the consequence of this policy is billions of Chinese people suffering in a massive reduction in consumer spending, both in China and abroad, leading to financial recession everywhere that makes the page. Thank you.
</dlo>

<mg>
So so far, we've heard a lot of analysis on why economical collapse is bad. While that analysis is very engaging, it is hardly on flashing this debate, because both sides seem to agree that economical collapse will be a highly undesirable outcome. And so all that's left to debate in this debate is on which side is economical collapse more like. Please note that any attempts to like throwing out economical collapses, like edge outcome or black swan event, irrelevant on both sides, because both sides have conceded that China is teetering on the verge of economic collapse. And the question is, what do we do about so therefore my good point will be, why? Why China will be an economic collapse, collapse? Should the status quo continue? And secondly, why China won't collapse economically under our side of the Melchizedek. How convenient. Before that few points involved. 
So the first idea is there won't be a collapse. When, When? When? Even if this, even if this happens, because there is collateral value in these bonds. First of all, note that a lot of the logic and arguments that you get from a about. Losing trust in the Chinese government, losing trust. And it's like Fidelity Investments, etc, having significantly more under our side of the motion when it downsizes more significantly. And so therefore saying there exists collateral is actually even truer. That's where collapse happens significantly more on our side. Secondly, please note that collateral value is greatly diminished because they run to say, but it's still valuable, right? A road is still a road, but still good is not good enough. In economics, someone bet a sum of money on this project, because the debt is essentially a bet. Someone bet on this project making X amount of money, and if it makes a 10 of the X, then it is useless. It is worthless, and it leads to economical collapse. And let me tell you that road between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan is not as useful when Belt and Road doesn't happen. That port in, that port in in, sorry that that port in Africa is not as useful when Belt and Road didn't happen. 
So, so, and secondly, we get this idea of green energy. We think this is really just trying to run as far as and fast as they can from the debate, because transitioning to green energy does lead to a slowing in economic growth, and therefore economic policy supported under their side. And the idea that Xi Jinping will fall was a throwaway point on their side. So if you didn't spend time on it, I won’t. 
Okay, so why would China collapse? Should the status quo continue? We say there this is a highly complicated BRI like Belt and Road initiative, highly complicated project likely to collapse. Why is that? Firstly, an undervaluation of cost. Why is that? First of all, risk assessment is incredibly hard. Second of all, please note that the risk assessment here depends on the cooperation of these governments, and those governments tend to be unstable. It's extremely hard for the for China to to quantify how likely a government is to fall. Thirdly, though, even if they were to quantify initially, that chaotic system has already shifted, because one of the things that destabilizes those very countries is opposition to Belt and Road within them, and so therefore instability increases even further. Fourthly, note, there's an information asymmetry with three actors, and two of them are predisposed to life. The three actors are the government receiving this project, which had the incentive to say, it's simpler, it's easier, and has all the incentive to do that because they want the court to happen, and when they believe, once the project will start, it will be finished to completion. 
Secondly, and second of all, the contractors, they want to be on their next step in the party. They want to succeed. And since this is very long term project, being good at the beginning is all it takes. Is just like the banking crisis government said, Why? Because you're measured short term and short term, low valuations are success. Lastly, please note another chaotic effect here is the desire of other superpowers to thwart the project, therefore tempting countries away from their from their engagement with the product. Same thing happens with an overvaluation of the benefits of the product. Again, it's extremely hard to predict value. There is an interest of both of the actors which possess the asymmetrical information to lie and say that the project will be more valuable than it is. The numbers of growth that we perceive for these African for Namibia are higher than the ones that are, that are going to be there, etc, etc, and the interest, again, of the contractors and as a product. 
Now what's even more dangerous about this is that those risks interact. They don't add to one another. They multiply with one another, and that is because of the inherent interdependency of the Belt and Road Initiative. Because if you want to get something from A to B, you have from A to C, you had better have B, C, D, and all of the other links along the way in place. For example, once the if the Pakistan, if the Pakistani passage falls through the Belt and Road Initiative, dramatic swaths of the East African part of Belt and Road Initiative become almost completely irrelevant. And so those risks interact in a way that a lot of crucial links to default make the other links completely lacking in value. And so therefore, we think it's extremely it's extremely hard to evaluate the cost and benefit of this project, or when a project benefit doesn't meet its cost, that's when you have risk, because a debt is essentially a bet that with the money you took, you can make more than the than the than bringing that money back, plus interest, but if you didn't make as much money as you expected to make, you can't deliver on that obligation, and you have to default on that debt. I hope that was also intelligible to my average voter, which seems to have been forgotten in this debate. 
Secondly, we say a lot of diminishing. A lot of the things that they even agree with about the diminishing productivity of China still over becoming less and less efficient, a lack of creative destruction and a lack of ability for the Chinese economy to adapt and the trade war with the United States are also things which would harm Chinese ability to funnel money from other places into that project. I talked about why we get stability on our side, but before that closing 


<poi>
Also all debts need a collective if you're right, and collecting the debt will crush the entire world economy who's collecting that debt?
</poi>

So, what how does that default works? That default works is by selling that collateral to those people in like debt arrangements. But unfortunately, now those people are left with half an airport or half, what's the word for it? That's harbor. Half a harbor and half a harbor ain't worth shaped. And so therefore those people are stuck in China White Elephants, after they made dramatic public political and monetary commitments, now defaulting in their own economies, unable to fulfill financial financial commitments that they made in front of their supplier. 
Why do we not get collapse on our side? This has a lot to do with flipping the analysis that we just heard. Because, first of all, right, now everybody knows that China fudges the growth numbers, so when the growth numbers actually become lower, that risk has already been taken into account by global markets to a large extent. Second of all, because this because of collapse, is a black and white process. There are no control processes. But when you have a controlled demolition then, or a controlled retraction. Then, every project that closes, you can have international, regional and national staff trying to over to trying to oversee that, trying to undo that. So for example, for closing a a a bunch of ports in the East African coast, we can have other superpowers investing into them. So we think, and thirdly, we think all of the other actors, just like Schulman said, have an incentive to support a gradual slowdown in order to avoid a collapse, and so they would be on board with that, but unlike where the class they actually have supposed to do so thanks.
</mg>

<mo>
So far governments have talked to you about with how this is an impending economic collapse, and how when it blows up, it blows up big. Opening opposition then comes and tells you that calling the bluff now China, saying this would happen, would make this blow up big and cause the same harms. So in order to crush this deadlock and win this big, we need to prove to you why China can actually keep this, what they call pretense, and actually keep it, keep the collapse away from at least as long as opening opposition says is needed for the global economy to diversify and protect itself, if not longer. What we're going to tell you, in extension, is in economies the size of the US or China, who spared the entire globe, who were so many other countries, are dependent on them. The the simplistic economics of this project might not work. Don't necessarily apply because, because there is a principle in the of modern monetary policy. Well, when I control my own currency and I'm not elected of someone else's currency. That means that the only thing I have to balance my currency and get is a surprise event of my goods and services and the things I settle as long as we can show you that China is able to do this. It continuously does this for years, without the likelihood of it significantly slowing down. We can we still easily take this debate before that just a little bit of two things first of all, it is unclear to me why God says that all of top half agreed China is on the break of collapse when opening opposition The entire case is that China has guaranteed to take ahead and not collapse. It can survive this. And the rather of doing this is what causes a collapse. That is the first thing. Second thing we say is it not keeps telling about the interaction of lists and how these figures would be alive could cause a cascade failure. However, it is unclear why that is true. When nominee himself says everybody knows that China is not entirely on it and take this into account and those that are lists involved because of unknowns, because he says that if we do a controlled implosion and implosion, then people can recover. Because he took this into account that Hispanic going into this, which implies that this is not as dangerous as he says, but he doesn't prove why control implosion is possible. Not doing this against opening opposition. 
Let's now complete the gap in opening opposition as to why we think that the current exchange is sustainable for for the foreseeable future. First of all, we say the important question is, let us define what does it mean? Sustainable because, because governments kept saying this is unsustainable, we can't keep it for longer, but they never told us what it is that's going to make this collapse. We say that China, so far have been, have been have been able to continue to keep the US wrong exactly, not exactly by having nobody with an incentive to actually call it on death or inept on anything with China. Why? Because this doesn't happen. Only because, yes, opening opposition said that people would do it when they think the economy is collapsing, but we say Furthermore, when China keeps printing money, it keeps initiating infrastructure, it creates an incentive, not only for the growth will they get, but rather for the demand for Chinese goods and services and infrastructure. They drive that growth. They created a business setting before no so that no country actually at any point should we beg of them because of these backfires, because they said, Oh, but if they continue doing this, they will be branded the third currency manipulator. Does it sound a threatening but they say they're already branded the currency manipulator. We say that massive tasks harming them would only happen if people can make do without them. 
Why do we think it is unlikely now? Yeah, we said, first of all, China has been doing this for years. How? A in massive reinvesting in production, moving on, specifically in production nowadays, but I think openly, don't kick that bullshit out of me, but massively investing in production, whereas the devil is buying Chinese water doesn't necessarily have, right now, an alternative supplier, which they can just go and say, Oh, well, tariff is just as the opposition to top strainball is, he puts the tariffs on China and political cost more, because nobody produces like china. There is no one. Second of all, The they expand in Chinese services, whether you can leverage your political capital and disinvestment to insulate countries buy for those services in tech, in industry, creating their economy to be more intertwined in Chinese infrastructure, which they keep talking about. Oh, maybe Kazakhstan, maybe Africa. By Israel, Italy just signed onto this, like the European Union is being pushed to become even more intelligent, in which would they are more likely to be to be to support this to Victor faith and not to enable those things and back out, which makes it more likely that both would be sustainable, because nobody has ever had if they say that keynesian economics doesn't work, we're willing to take a step further into Neo Keynesian economics. Instead, the keynesian economics doesn't work only if you can, if you can get people to only people stop buying the water, only if you can get people to stop participating in the economy. Because in case of the Chinese economy, people just keep opting in, at which point it becomes more. If closing tells us that people know that there are ways and need to hedge their best, we say that continued, continue to have this economy going strong, rather than imploding, this is what makes it more likely that this country is likely to continue in dark road on its own. And then this is what gives time for opening opposition, in this case to to be true at which point they are, i will take the opening. 


<poi>
This just means, on our side of house, that you re evaluate new projects based on profitability and stuff like that. But projects still happen. The difference is you don't fund it with inflation, which also cuts over other parts of your industry, which you have to import resources from and risk hyperinflation.
</poi>

Thank you, we think that while evaluating good and new projects based on profitability It may sound nice, the ability to have new projects, the ability to continue to grow and provide infrastructure. They keep being flippant about the better road in of, What is the railway from Uzbekistan helps? Well, even if it doesn’t have China, the buildings, roads and infrastructure it world will not existed. The Nigeria has the ability to develop get oil did not they are building out of this infrastructure for such a not only for benefit of China, but for other people, if they say, oh, but they're going to evaluate qualitative, evaluate the possibility, we say, the ability to evaluate qualitatively, to also have profitable endeavors which would have challenged future sustainability, in that sense of contingent, the ability to create projects everywhere, which could, which continue to fuel and then it sustains the demand for such Chinese the ability to create 10 projects that would help people on the ground, which enable that a massively profitable project is something that requires that, because, not only to reach important when it is possible for China, you know, for example, oil, in fact, in the country, they don't need the country to have infrastructure. You say that ability is like the best of the balance in the world is slightly sustainable, because nobody in the world has has been decided to actually opt out and take the entire economy with it as they cannot, which is totally not a bit crazy and what they say, but rather a smart one.
</mo>

<gw>
Okay, opening government correct that there is a dominant fact that is likely to happen if Shannon Fauci or correct that it might be the case that when we back away from our promises to the shadow banks, it might also therefore, maybe we should ask ourselves, what is likely to happen on both sides of the hands. So the first question is going to be, what is the likely scenario? Is China likely to default because it's debt? Secondly, because it will also affect that. Are we capable of stopping that? And thirdly, where are the harms of economic slowdown and does it lead to collapse? And if not, how can we manage those sort of cases before that? A couple of metaphors into the mess that CO called an extension. So basically, most of the analysis is just saying, like, on why we're allowed to control this is like, well, we printed money until this point. Why not continue that? Maybe because we've taken unprecedented amounts of debts and promises We've never taken before, sure this policy might have worked when we didn't have those grand projects, or in the 1950s when we're in a developing nation other country we depend us it was actually a thing then they a weird thing about the incentives and keeping buying okay.
Let's understand how currencies work, because clearly none of the opposition teams understand that if you keep printing Yuan and people have more Yuan, that means that they can pay more yuan to get stuff in them. That means that the value of the yuan decreases because people have more yuan to pay for the value that was before 30. They couldn't only pay 30, I can pay 40, because just added more yuan to the system without creating any value. So when they buy ATV, when they factor in import stuff, that means they pay more, and therefore the value increases. So you create exactly the devaluation that might also cost the call in a second. But don't just retain the currency, just print more money. Just don't understand how money and currency works. They will not explain their extension with in response to, be like saying in intensives something, and then the last brilliant someone else is why it is likely to be to be controlled. Well, you know, Italy just signed in, so the EU would build it out. What? A couple of things. Hey, a fact that the Italy signed a deal in the future does not mean that the entire EU would be on board to just taking China out. But a more broader, but not a specific example that they might have invented. Might not note if those countries were capable, to any extent of bailing out the product in payment, they would have done that themselves. They needed Chinese debts to do so, which economic international body would lend money to Italy to bail out China and the Belt and Road sure they might slow down the cost and say, Look, if you abandon the project again, no one would say, Yeah, sure that you will give like $5 trillion in order for Italy not to collapse just because they were stupid. It is so unlikely that anybody, because the interconnectors, will decide to build them up, but they will collapse just because the interconnectors. It is a harm that they are interconnected, not a benefit. No thank you.
So firstly, what is not the consequences under our when debt contains so opening arguments is say over is just unstable. Then go here say, look, they can just take over their money and still they join their wagon and say which you didn't prove like is very very likely to collapse. It's too bad that am actually gives you a couple of very strong links to the lab that you are going to collapse and describe you what it looks like. None of those were actually respond. So let me tell you, hey, you need almost every single link to succeed. If you don't have the corridor between Pakistan and China, you didn't bypass Malaysia and the narrow straits, and therefore all the economic flows can't go directly overland, in a safer route. So all the other ports and roads are worth nothing, if only you have the roads up until close to China. About China, not none of the global goods that are supposed to go that will flow. So it is useless for the other countries to have it. The point was to trade through China and with China, because it’s large economy, secondly, there is an inherent inability to evaluate this product. Now Elaye tells us look, but they take it into account. A couple of responses to that. A it is in risk that they just impossible to evaluate because of the complexity of it, because every single it might fail, because you don't know the value of it once it succeeds, even if it succeeds, because you don’t know the exact value is it $1billion or two and a half billion dollars with the United States, we may not withdraw our Trump. What will happen in the EU such a global scale product is just unlikely to be so. 
But lastly, note, it is not an economic decision. There's also politics involved, to a very large extent, political. Political decisions are likely to make shorter decisions build to try to build the port now, and that's why it's succeeding even is very unlikely, so we say that they are likely to undervalue and sell for short, and when the money is supposed to fall back, you have too little of it. Lastly, we just told you there are a million obstacles to success in each liberal country. These are just local resistance. You see everywhere in Africa, in Thailand, in in in, in Pakistan, for those projects, say that there's like, there's lack of knowledge of what is actually needed in order to set up a project. You don't know the terrain. We don't know political groups. We don't know the difficulties there is hard, and you are pushing to sign more and more countries as fast as possible. 
And lastly, just intervention with Western states that slows you down more. The consequences are default book because they say but why is it the default. You have a company. Other companies have better on the project system. They have raised money. People have spent their money. Species have funded companies on the basis of will have a port in five to 10 years, then that port does not exist because of any authorities. All of the money that they invested in goes to nothing. It has no value. Now they can't pay debt loans and give me the bank all the jobs. The promised people are in there. All the investment chains have made and counted on them in order to invest in global work don't exist. At that point, things start to collapse. You don't have the money to keep investing. You don't have the money to pay back. And it's not only total your collateral is useless. Nobody has anything to do with that road or that half built port at the point of collapse. So we say our little arsenal in the house. You will collapse the cause of the debt, and you will vote, and all the consequences are going to happen before we continue. I'll take opening opposition as I promise.


<poi>
So One Belt and Road, debt isn't long enough to block China. You never explain why it was, but even if it was, it doesn't sound like strategic brilliance to suppress global demand and make the valid assets work even less if the thing you're most concerned about is losing the value of like a void.
</poi>

Okay, so here we get just the second question of, can we stop this? So a couple of things, A it is a very large part of it. Those are trillions of dollars of investment. They were that were made in the last couple of years. It is likely to grow even more. So it is at least 10 to 15% of that investment is the likely result of stopping that. But don't damage say, look, the damage can happen anyway, right? We've already promised that, so we're going to collapse a couple response this A that a lot of the process and procedures are on their way. Negotiations are happening. Currently, we haven't actually put anything on the ground in most of these areas. But secondly, this is just like a basic sunken cost, sunken cost fallacy, right? Cut your bosses don't go knee deep into the mud just because you had one foot in. But lastly, Noam tells something critical, right? Because opening opposition you Say look, but a lot of damages are happening anyway, because you backed up on your promises. 
Forget the fact that there's no analysis on why collapse happens, just because when one shadow bank collapse in the Chinese sector, Noam tells them when you're more likely to control sort of scenario exactly because people already going to believe that the Chinese economy is going to represent exactly, because it's more gradual process in the collapse that is likely to happen on defaulting on loans, they have more ability to play around with that. So this is very powerful, please.
</gw>

<ow>
Imagine a country that had its debt balloon up from around $2 billion within 50 years to around 23 Imagine a country that keeps depleting all of its natural resources in order to invest. Imagine a country that clearly does not invest enough in and of itself in technology. That country is called Earth, and no one here is afraid that Earth is about to explode, that Earth is not able to sustain itself economically, that Earth might have too much money or so. The reason is that once you start talking about those kind of economies that are so big, when we're talking about China, we're talking about like, 12% of the entire Earth, regular economic structures just don't matter, for example. So let's say their example, if my port is indeed half a hole and it is worth nothing, right? Maybe then it is very unwisely to just take it back and cut my lawsuit. Maybe what I would do is come to adeal with China, in which I would buy Chinese goods. They would give me Chinese goods to make up for that worth and so on. The idea is, again, that you could always maybe China could let a political favor and negotiate a trade between me and a third country and so on. The idea is that once we're talking about those skills, the amount of as they tell us the results, the amount of opportunities, of risk and of reward, is so hard to measure up. It's very weird to say overall, instead, what we're giving you is what can actually be done, and we're doing it on two questions. We'll talk about exactly about the risk of collapse while we have a simple mechanism that is likely to work. Then we'll talk about the so called the so called shortcomings of MMT and explain why they are relevant. Before that, a few points of rebound, they tell us, for example, which body would bail out Chinese enterprises in Italy, A an international body that is afraid of starting the chain reaction that we talked about, perhaps the US which have, which has still 20% of the world economy, and it will definitely affect them as well. By that making the government of Italy itself, perhaps, as Italy, they trade Chinese goods, or they traded instead. Those are exactly the kind of things that happen. We're talking about such global scale. Secondly, they tell us that the risks are impossible to account for. Okay? Why are them? Rewards possible to account for. We're saying that just like you could have a unforeseen event in which you are only stuck with half court, you could also have an unforeseen event in which a new technology developed, instead developed in Norway, enables much better driven in Nigeria, giving you a lot more goods than you would be expected. There is no reason to assume that their side of their pessimistic side is more likely on that idea. 
Let's talk about, Oh, yeah. So let's talk about, about, first of all, collapses and risk and so on. We agree. OG comes and tells you just you're spending too much money. You can't keep it up. All comes and says a few good lookings. They say, Well, maybe you do have collateral and reserves, maybe some policies don't. You can have some policies that are that wouldn't harm growth as much. And obviously we completely agree with with O. The problem is that, as O CG themselves say you still are in debt. It is normally going to cover everything. People still, as I told us, make a bet that someone needs to cook, and we're saying, You're right, but we're talking about a debt of $34 trillion suddenly the rules of betting becomes very, very different. So here's an example. The US, for example, have a debt of $16 trillion no one in the world is betting that the US would fail to say that. There is no good reason to believe that the US is race forward than China. However, it's just about the matter of perception. So if you can keep that perception going on, this is arguing people, as we have heard that themselves. Want to believe that everything is going to be okay. Want to believe that the day it's going to be fine. So what do you do? Able to do? Many people would just collect on their debt. They don't think they can get anything right now, exactly because they sunk in cost. And this is exactly why they could wait for the future. They would bury the loss, to some extent, on them, on themselves. 
Secondly, I told you you could always print more money. Now they're telling us you cannot print more money. We'll get to that in a second. But the question is not yet. You can think. The question is, if you print your money, will people take that money? And the answer is yes, they are sort of good, because you have good things to do with you. And you can invest in China, in Chinese Bucha, and buy the Chinese good and so on. Therefore, we told you that since China still has all of its political might, they can still, again relate, to a large extent, using that political mind. So if what they want, and this is important to CG, if what CG wants is a controlled explosion, we're telling you we have a good way of providing that control explosion using our method. Because what's happening is that slowly what should be where we have China, China can only keep on investing two terms that people still trust it. And if people slowly start to lose trust, trust, then again, they slowly start backing out, and that is fine. You don't get that huge chain event. It does happen when you have a concrete every year. Let's take all your credit. It does happen when you have a concrete policy that says, oh shit, we're in trouble. Now get up right then we say, stuff changing. So let's talk about MMT, why it's still working in spite of, like, the so control coming, and we'll tell you, construction


<poi>
ultimately mitigatory solutions, CEO suggests, are actual strategies for preventing those collapse with gradually downside. They are impossible to execute in the midst of a global financial economic crisis.
</poi>

Good, then that we're not in the midst of a global economic crisis. We don't understand what let's talk about energy. So it does. It is impossible for a few reasons, a the group, integrity, will be blamed as a a a as a country manipulator. One me tell you literally status quo. More than that was saying it is literally China's policy to keep its un low so they can keep on selling more goods. So when they're saying, Oh no, we would have inflation. It is, in fact, China that is making sure they are inflated to an extent today, so they might just not have to do it as much on their side, but that's all about themselves. Because they're saying, Oh, but what about all like, why wouldn't people still use the one? It could be worthless, but then again, NFT comes to the rescue in a few ways. Why do they tell you, A that it is about what you can do with your power as China. We will tell you, it's not only your political mind that you can go and so on, that you can make sure that you get cheaper good in other means. It means that, for example, if what you want is to import certain stuff or sections, then the PN and now comes incredibly powerful and so on. But we’re telling you you know what can do use taxation. What is taxation? Taking back the money? So the result too much, it is the easiest thing to do for all those listeners. Good day.
</ow>
