Organisation and Governance - IOAA 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current IOAA
 
 
 For Participants 
 For Team Leaders 
 For Newcomers 
 For Media 
 News 
 Circulars 2026 
 
 
 
 
 
 About IOAA
 
 
 Organisation and Governance 
 IOAA Foundation 
 History 
 Statistics 
 Future Events 
 Contacts 
 FAQs 
 Alumni 
 
 
 
 
 
 Resources
 
 
 IOAA Syllabus 
 Problems from past IOAA 
 Past Proceedings 
 IOAA Publications 
 National Olympiads 
 International Activities 
 IAU Commissions 
 Other STEM Olympiads 
 Other Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 Past Olympiads
 
 
 
 
 
 Junior IOAA
 
 
 Junior IOAA Syllabus 
 Current Junior IOAA Olympiad 
 Past junior IOAA olympiads 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current IOAA 
 
 
 
 
 For Participants 
 
 
 For Team Leaders 
 
 
 For Newcomers 
 
 
 For Media 
 
 
 News 
 
 
 Circulars 2026 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About IOAA 
 
 
 
 
 Organisation and Governance 
 
 
 IOAA Foundation 
 
 
 History 
 
 
 Statistics 
 
 
 Future Events 
 
 
 Contacts 
 
 
 FAQs 
 
 
 Alumni 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Resources 
 
 
 
 
 IOAA Syllabus 
 
 
 Problems from past IOAA 
 
 
 Past Proceedings 
 
 
 IOAA Publications 
 
 
 National Olympiads 
 
 
 International Activities 
 
 
 IAU Commissions 
 
 
 Other STEM Olympiads 
 
 
 Other Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Past Olympiads 
 
 
 
 
 Junior IOAA 
 
 
 
 
 Junior IOAA Syllabus 
 
 
 Current Junior IOAA Olympiad 
 
 
 Past junior IOAA olympiads 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Organisation and Governance 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Organisation and governance
 
 
 
 
 
 The International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics is governed by a set of Statutes * , initially derived from those of the International Physics Olympiad, and subsequently modified (through a voting process described in the statues) to better reflect the needs of the competition. All participants agree to abide by the terms of the Statutes.

 According to the statutes, the governing body of the IOAA organisation is the  International Board (IB) , sometimes also called the  International Board Meeting  or  IBM  as meetings of the Board are referred to in the event schedules. The IB consists of the team leaders of the primary (non-guest) team from each country attending an IOAA event, who serve as members from the first IBM of that event until the next IOAA event. Many leaders have participated in several IOAA events and may thus be members of the International Board for a corresponding number of years.

 Decisions of the Board are taken by open majority vote (except for elections, which are by closed ballot) following free discussions. Each member may vote independently, regardless of country affiliation. The Board is considered  the highest decision making body of the IOAA  and may override decisions of the local event organiser if it deems so necessary. It may also change the Statutes following the procedures outlined therein.

 Past decisions of the Board made in response to particular circumstances are considered to form a  precedent  if those circumstances recur, thus ensuring consistency and continuity.

 In addition to the members, the Board has a President and a General Secretary, who are elected by the Board by majority vote for terms of 5 years. There are no limits on re-election. The President and Secretary advise the local organisers, supervise Board meetings and competition events, ensure compliance with the Statues and previous Board decisions, and have a tie-breaking vote.

 This governance structure allows for continuity between IOAA events and for the aggregation of collective knowledge and experience, leading to improvements in the events from year to year. Further, the democratic structure and collective governance system makes the IOAA organisation independent of any one person and grants it an fair and open structure in which the voices of all participants can be heard.

 Each individual event is organised by a  Local Organising Committee , often with an  Academic Committee  or equivalent overseeing setting of the problem tasks, and a  Jury responsible for marking student papers, as well as other assistants as required.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Statutes of International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics
 
 
 
 
 
 #1

 In recognition of the growing significance of astronomy and related subjects in all fields of Science and Technology, including the general education of young people, and with the aim of enhancing the development of international contacts between different countries in the field of school education in astronomy and astrophysics, an annual competition in these subjects has been organised for high school students; the competition is called the “International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics” (IOAA). The International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics should be organised during July – December.

 #2

 The competition is organised in one of the participating countries on whose territory the competition is to be conducted. Participation in the IOAA is restricted to teams from countries or territories with National Olympic Committees, duly recognised by the International Olympic Committee. By choosing to participate, the teams agree to abide by the Statutes of the IOAA and the decisions of the IOAA board, and appropriate international legal and diplomatic agreements. In the event of a dispute regarding the official name of a participating team, the name recognised by the International Olympic Committee will be used. 

 The organising country is obliged to ensure equal participation of all delegations, and to invite all the participants of any of the latest three competitions. Additionally, it has the right to invite other countries.

 The International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics is a purely educational event. No country may have its team excluded from participation by the organisers on any political grounds such as those resulting from political tension, lack of diplomatic relations, lack of recognition by the government of the organising country, imposed embargo or similar reasons. If such difficulties preclude formal invitation of an official team representing a country, students from such a country should if possible be invited to participate as individuals. 

 The competition is conducted in a friendly atmosphere designed to promote future collaborations and to encourage friendships in the scientific community. To that effect any tensions between the participating countries should not be reflected in any activity during the competition. Any political or religious activity directed against any individuals or countries is strictly prohibited. A country that violates this rule may be barred from participation. 

 Within five years of its entry in the competition a country should declare its intention to be the host for a future Olympiad. This declaration should propose a timetable so that a provisional list of the order of countries willing to host Olympiads can be compiled. A country that refuses to organise the competition may be barred from participation, even if delegations from that country have taken part in previous competitions.

 #3

 The competition is organised by the Ministry of Education or other appropriate institution of one of the participating countries. Hereunder, the term “Ministry of Education” is used in the above meaning. 

 The Ministries of Education of the participating countries, as a rule, assign the organisation, preparation and execution of the competition to a scientific society or other institution in the organising country. The Ministry of Education of the organising country notifies the Ministries of Education of the participating countries of the name and address of the institution assigned to organise the competition.

 #4

 Each participating country may send one regular team of contestants consisting of no more than 5 students, selected through a fair and representative process. The members of the team can be high school students or students who finish their high school in the year of the competition. The age of the contestants must be less than twenty years on July 1st of the year of the competition.

 In addition to the students, each country sends up to two accompanying adults (referred to as “team leaders”). Teams with 4 or 5 students can include two team leaders. Teams with 2 or 3 students can include only one team leader. Any team with only one student and one team leader cannot be classified as an official team but can still participate as a guest team (see statute 6). No students may participate without at least one team leader accompanying the team.

 The team leaders must be selected from persons such as scientists or teachers who are themselves capable of solving, discussing and translating the problems of the competition competently, and who should be able to communicate in English.

 The team leaders each become equal and independent members of the International Board. Members of the International Board are treated as the representative contact persons for the participating countries concerning the affairs of the International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics.

 Each participating team should provide the organisers with a list containing the contestants’ personal data (full name, date of birth, home address and address of the school attended) and certificates (in English) from the schools confirming the contestants’ attendance or graduation in the year of the competition.

 #5

 If a regular participating country is unable to send a team in person in a certain year, for example due to travel restrictions resulting from exceptional circumstances, it may apply to the IOAA EC and organisers to be allowed to participate remotely. A remote team must meet the same criteria as a regular team and should be registered in the same manner. The team leaders will be considered members of the International Board and may participate in all discussions and votes. They will be responsible for isolating their team members, maintaining secrecy of the questions and translation. The method of distributing questions and marking or moderating student answers will be agreed prior to the Olympiad between the remotely participating countries, the organisers and the IOAA EC.

 Contestants participating remotely will be classified in the same way as regular teams except that their marks will not be used in the calculation of medal boundaries. They may receive diplomas, however they should be identified as “Online” in all official documents and listed separately. There is no obligation for the organisers to provide physical prizes or physical medals for remote teams.

 #6

 The organising country may accept in-person guest teams in addition to the regular teams (no more than one guest team per country). A guest team must meet the same criteria as a regular team and should be registered in the same manner. However, team leaders of guest teams are not members of the International Board and do not vote. Except for that, their duties are the same as those of the leaders of the regular teams, including participating in moderation.

 Participation of a guest team always needs approval from the organising country. The country sending a guest team pays all the expenses arising from its participation. The next organisers are not obliged to invite guest teams present at the previous competition. Countries present with guest teams only are not obliged to organise the IOAA in the future.

 Remote guest teams may only be allowed, if the regular team is also participating remotely, and that too at the discretion of the organisers and IOAA EC.

 Contestants from guest teams and guest teams are classified in the same way as regular teams, except that their marks will not be used in the calculation of medal boundaries. They may receive diplomas and prizes, their names should be identified with the letter “G” (“Guest”) in all official documents.

 #7

 The working language of the International Olympiad in Astronomy and Astrophysics is English. Competition problems and their solutions should be prepared in English; the organisers, however, may prepare those documents in other languages as well.

 #8

 The financial principles of the organisation of the competition are as follows:

 
 
 The Ministry which sends the students to the competition covers the round trip travel expenses of the students and the accompanying persons to the place where the competition is held.

 
 
 From the year 2025 onwards, each participating team will be required to pay a participation fee, which is expected to be covered by the ministry which sends the students to the competition. The quantum of fee is defined in regulations.

 
 
 The Ministry of the organising country covers all other costs from the moment of arrival until the moment of departure. In particular, this concerns the costs for board and lodging for the students and the accompanying persons, the costs of excursions, awards for the winners, etc.

 
 
  

 #9

 The competition consists of 2 parts: the theoretical competition (including short and long questions) and practical competition (including observations and data analysis). There should normally be 5 short, 5 intermediate length and 2 or 3 long questions for the theoretical part. For the practical part, the organiser may give a set task on 1) observation, 2) paper-based practical problem, 3) computer-based problem, 4) planetarium simulation or combination of the four, which is expected to be solvable in 5 hours. The problems should involve at least four areas mentioned in the Syllabus.

 The sequence of the competition days is decided by the organisers of the competition. The time allotted for solving the problems should be a total of five hours for the theoretical part and a total of five hours for all components of the practical part. These competition parts should be spread over at least four calendar days with at least one free day between first examination and last examination. The duration of the Olympiad (including the arrival and departure days) should normally be 10 days. 

 When solving the problems the contestants may use  drawing materials and non-programmable pocket calculators without graphics, which are brought by the contestants themselves. Collections of formulae from mathematics, chemistry, physics, etc., are not allowed.

 #10

 The competition tasks are prepared by the host country. The host country has to prepare at least: 2 short, 2 intermediate length, 1 long theoretical and 1 data analysis and 1 observational spare problems. They will be shown to the International Board only if some of the originally presented problems are rejected by two thirds of members of the International Board. The rejected problem cannot be reconsidered.

 The host country may ask for and consider suggestions for questions from the members of the International Board. Any members of the International Board supplying such suggestions do so in strict confidence and on the understanding that they will not be disclosed to the students prior to the competition.

 #11

 The theoretical part makes 50 % of the total mark, and the practical part 50 % (25% data analysis and 25% observation) of the total mark. The practical solutions should consist of theoretical analysis (plan and discussion) and practical execution. The solution to each problem should contain an answer and its complete justification.

 #12

 The individual participants will receive certificates and medals or honourable mentions in accordance with the criteria below:

 
 
 The reference score M is defined as the lower of 50% of the absolute score, and the median total score of all the contestants.

 
 
 With the contestants’ scores ranked in descending order, the 1 score immediately above and 3 consecutive scores immediately below the reference score M will be examined. Among these scores, those two consecutive scores will be identified which have the largest absolute difference. From these two scores, the higher one will be taken as the lowest-scoring Bronze medal score. 

 
 
 Similarly, for the Silver medal, the 1 score above and 3 scores below 1.3M will be examined and the lowest-scoring silver medal score will be taken as the higher score among those two consecutive scores which have the largest absolute difference. 

 
 
 Similarly, for the Gold medal, the 1 score above and 3 scores below 1.6M will be examined and the lowest-scoring gold medal score will be taken as the higher score among those two consecutive scores which have the largest absolute difference.

 
 
 For honourable mention certificates, the reference score as defined above will be determined separately for the theoretical (MT) and practical (MP) parts and similarly adjusted for the largest difference. Any participant who has not been awarded a medal, but whose score in either one of these parts is at or above the respective adjusted score (MT or MP), will receive an honourable mention certificate.  

 
 
 The participant who obtains the highest score (the Overall Winner) will receive a special prize and a certificate. 

 
 
 The two participants with the highest score in each of the Theoretical part and Practical part will each receive special certificates and may be given additional prizes.

 
 
 The remaining participants will receive certificates of participation.

 
 
 Other special prizes may be awarded at the discretion of the organiser.

 
 
 In the event of a large imbalance in the medal counts, the organisers may propose a temporary adjustment of either or both of the factors 1.3 and 1.6 with adequate justification. Only the organisers may propose the adjustment and the proposed values may not be modified by the International Board. Acceptance of the adjusted factors requires a qualified majority of the International Board in favour, in the same manner as a statute change, and it does not create a precedent for later Olympiads.

 
 
  

 #13

 To encourage cooperation between the participants from different countries, each IOAA will also include a event for international teams, classified separately from the main competition, organised according to the following rules:

 
 
 Each team should consist of at least 5 students with each team member from a different country. Selection of team members should, where possible, be randomized.

 
 
 For judging the best international team, a task which is to be performed by the team as a whole will be designed. This task may contain theoretical, practical or observational aspects or any combination thereof. The host country will be free to decide which option to use or propose a different format in consultation with the Secretariat of the IOAA.

 
 
 The organizers shall prepare an award for the best international team.

 
 
 The principles by which any remote teams may participate in the team competition will be agreed between the organisers, IOAA EC, and the remote teams, including (if necessary) setting a different task or waiving the requirement to form international teams. Remote teams undertaking the team competition will be classified separately from in-person teams, and there is no obligation for the organisers to provide physical prizes or physical medals.

 
 
  

 #14

 The obligations of the organiser:

 
 
 The organiser is obliged to ensure that the competition is organised in accordance with the Statutes.

 
 
 The organiser should produce a set of “Organisation Rules”, based on the Statutes, and send them to the participating countries in good time. These Organisation Rules shall give details of the Olympiad not covered in the Statutes, and give names and addresses of the institutions and persons responsible for the Olympiad.

 
 
 The organiser establishes a precise program for the competition (schedule for the contestants and the accompanying persons, program of excursions, etc.), which is sent to the participating countries in advance.

 
 
 The organiser should check immediately after the arrival of each delegation whether its contestants meet the conditions of the competitions.

 
 
 The organiser chooses (according to the Syllabus) the problems and ensures their proper formulation in English and in other languages set out in # 6. It is advisable to select problems where the solutions require a certain creative capability and a considerable level of knowledge. Everyone taking part in the preparation of the competition problems is obliged to preserve complete secrecy.

 
 
 The organiser must provide the teams with guides.

 
 
 The organiser should provide the delegation leaders with Photostat copies of the solutions of the contestants in their delegation at least 24 hours before the moderation.

 
 
 The organiser is responsible for organising the grading of the problem solutions and moderation.

 
 
 The organiser drafts a list of participants proposed as winners of the prizes and honorable mentions.

 
 
 The organiser prepares the prizes (diplomas and medals), honorable mentions and awards for the winners of the competition.

 
 
 The organiser is obliged to publish the proceedings (in English) of the Olympiad. Each of the participants of the competition (delegation heads, pedagogical leaders and contestants) should receive one copy of the proceedings free of charge not later than one year after the competition.

 
 
  

 #15

 For the duration of the event, the International Board is chaired by a representative of the organising country. He/she is responsible for the preparation of the competition and serves on the Board in addition to the accompanying persons of the respective teams.

 All decisions, except those described separately, are passed by a majority of votes. In the case of an equal number of votes for and against, the chairman has the casting vote.

 #16

 The delegation leaders are responsible for the proper translation of the problems from English (or other languages mentioned in # 6) to the mother tongue of the participants.

 #17

 The International Board has the following responsibilities:

 
 
 To direct and supervise the competition to ensure that it is conducted according to the regulations.

 
 
 To discuss the organisers’ choice of tasks, their solutions and the suggested evaluation guidelines before each day of the competition. The Board can change or reject suggested tasks but cannot propose new ones. Changes may not affect practical equipment. There will be a final decision on the formulation of tasks and on the evaluation guidelines. The participants in the meeting of the International Board are bound to preserve secrecy concerning the tasks and to be of no assistance to any of the contestants.

 
 
 To ensure correct and just classification of the prize winners.

 
 
 To establish the winners of the competition and make decisions concerning the presentation of prizes and honorable mentions. The decision of the International Board is final.

 
 
 To review the results of the competition.

 
 
 To select the country which will be the organiser of the next competition.

 
 
 The International Board is the only body that can make decisions on barring countries from participation in the International Olympiad in Astronomy and Astrophysics for the violation of these Statutes.

 
 
 
 
 The term of the international board is defined to be from the start of one competition till the start of the next competition.

 
 
 Individual members may choose to opt out of the international board, by nominating their replacement from the same country. Requests for such replacements may be approved by IOAA EC after due consideration.

 
 
 From the time of conclusion of one IOAA till the start of the next IOAA, the international board is chaired by the IOAA president.

 
 
 IOAA EC members are ex-officio members of the international board.

 
 
  

 Observers may be present at meetings of the International Board, but may not vote or take part in the discussions.

 #18

 The institution in charge of the Olympiad announces the results and presents the awards and diplomas to the winners at an official ceremony. It invites representatives of the organising Ministry and scientific institutions to the closing ceremony of the competition.

 #19

 The long term work involved in organising the Olympiads is coordinated by a “Executive Council for the International Olympiad in Astronomy and Astrophysics“. This Executive Council consists of the President, General Secretary, two elected councilors and one nominated councilor. All council members, except the nominated councilor, are elected by the International Board for a period of five years when the chairs become vacant. The nominated councilor is unanimously chosen by the remaining four members of the incoming executive council and has a term concurrent with the rest of the Executive council. Through the election or through the nomination, the EC must strive to achieve diversity in gender, ethnicity and geography. 

 No individual can be a part of the IOAA council for more than three terms. No two members of the IOAA council can belong to the same country.

 The President and General Secretary are members of the International Board in addition to the regular members mentioned in # 4. They are invited to each International Olympiad in Astronomy and Astrophysics at cost (including travel expenses) of the organising country. Prior to each IOAA, the President and General Secretary are also expected to work with the academic committee of the host to ensure the tasks being designed are consistent with the principles as stated in IOAA statutes and syllabus. 

 The role of elected as well as nominated councilors is to advise IOAA secretary and president in crucial administrative matters as well as act as the academic advisors for the IOAA host countries. 

 #20

 These statutes are supplemented by:

 
 
 Regulations concerning the details of the organisation.

 
 
 The Syllabus mentioned in #18

 
 
  

 #21

 Changes in the present Statutes, the insertion of new paragraphs or exclusion of old ones, can only be made by the International Board and requires qualified majority (2/3 of the votes).

 Changes in the Supplementary material can be made by the simple majority (½ of the votes).

 No changes may be made to these Statutes or Syllabus, unless each delegation obtains written text of the proposal at least 3 months in advance.

 #22

 Participation in the International Olympiad in Astronomy and Astrophysics signifies acceptance of the present Statutes by the Ministry of Education of the participating country.

 #23

 The originals of these Statutes are written in English.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IOAA Syllabus
 
 
 
 
 
 Syllabus updated 2021-11-17

 General Notes: 
 
 Extensive contents in basic astronomical concepts are required in theoretical and practical problems. 
 Basic concepts in physics and mathematics at high school level are required in solving the problems. Standard solutions should not involve the use of complex numbers and/or solving differential equations. 
 Astronomical software packages may be used in practical and observational problems. The contestants will be informed the list of software packages to be used at least 3 months in advance. The chosen software packages should be preferably freeware or low-cost ones enabling all countries to obtain them easily for practice purpose. The chosen software should preferably be available on multiple OSs (Windows / Unix / GNU-Linux / Mac). 
 Concepts and phenomena not included in the Syllabus may be used in questions but sufficient information must be given in the questions so that contestants without previous knowledge of these topics would not be at a disadvantage. 
 Sophisticated practical equipment likely to be unfamiliar to the candidates should not dominate a problem. If such devices are used in the questions, sufficient information must be provided. In such cases, students should be given opportunity to familiarise themselves with the equipment before the exam. 
 The original text of the problems must use SI units, wherever applicable. Participants will be expected to give appropriate units in their answers and should be familiar with the idea of correct rounding off and expressing the final result(s) and error(s) with the correct number of significant digits. 
 
 
Theoretical Part 
 Symbol (Q) is attached to some topics in the list, meaning “qualitative understanding only”. Quantitative reasoning / proficiency in these topics is not expected.

 The following theoretical contents are proposed for the contestants.

 
Basic Astrophysics 
 
 
 
 Contents 
 Topics 
 
 
 Celestial Mechanics 
 Newton’s Laws of Gravitation, Kepler’s Laws for circular and non-circular orbits, Roche limit, barycentre, 2-body problem, Lagrange points 
 
 
 Electromagnetic Theory & Quantum Physics 
 Electromagnetic spectrum, Radiation Laws, Blackbody radiation 
 
 
 Thermodynamics 
 Thermodynamic equilibrium, Ideal gas, Energy transfer 
 
 
 Spectroscopy and Atomic Physics 
 Absorption, Emission, Scattering, Spectra of Celestial objects, Doppler effect, Line formation, Continuum spectra, Splitting and Broadening of spectral lines, polarisation 
 
 
 Nuclear Physics 
 Basic concepts including structure of atom, Mass defect and binding energy Radioactivity, Neutrinos (Q) 
 
 
 
 Mathematical Methods and Tools 
 
 
 
 Contents 
 Topics 
 
 
 Numerical Methods 
 Linearisation of equations and expressions, Iterative solving of functions, estimating area under a curve by graphical method and/or by integration and/or by numerical approximations, Taylor series approximations of common functions 
 
 
 Basic Calculus 
 Derivatives of elementary functions, their sums, products, quotients, and nested functions. Integration as the inverse procedure to differentiation. Finding defi­nite and indefinite integrals for elementary functions, and sums of functions. Geometric in­terpretation of derivatives and integrals. Finding constants of integration using initial con­ditions. 
 
 
 Vectors 
 Basic properties of vector sums, dot and cross products, Ge­ometrical interpretation of a time derivative of a vector quantity 
 
 
 Geometric Instruments 
 Use of ruler, geometric compass, protractor, set-square 
 
 
 Statistics & Error Analysis 
 Mean, Median, Mode, percentiles, box plots, Standard deviation, basic probabilities, relative errors, error estimation using maximum error and/or standard error 
 
 
 
 
Coordinates and Times 
 
 
 
 Contents 
 Topics 
 
 
 Celestial Sphere 
 Spherical trigonometry, Celestial coordinates and their applications, Equinox and Solstice, Circumpolar stars, Constellations and Zodiac
(Note: azimuth is measured in the range 0° to 360° starting from N and increasing towards E unless stated otherwise.) 
 
 
 Concept of Time 
 Solar time, Sidereal time, Julian date, Heliocentric Julian date, Time zone, Universal Time, Local Mean Time, Different definitions of “year”, Equation of time 
 
 
 
 
Solar System 
 
 
 
 Contents 
 Topics 
 
 
 The Sun 
 Solar structure, Solar surface activities, Solar rotation, Solar radiation and Solar constant, Solar neutrinos (Q), Sun-Earth relations, Role of magnetic fields (Q), Solar wind and radiation pressure, Heliosphere (Q), Magnetosphere (Q) 
 
 
 The Solar System 
 Earth-Moon System, precession, nutation, libration, Formation and evolution of the Solar System (Q), Structure and components of the Solar System (Q), Structure and orbits of the Solar System objects, Sidereal and Synodic periods, Retrograde motion, Outer reaches of the solar system (Q) 
 
 
 Space Exploration 
 Satellite trajectories and transfers, Human exploration of the Solar System (Q), planetary missions (Q), Sling-shot effect of gravity, Space-based instruments (Q) 
 
 
 Phenomena 
 Tides, Seasons, Factors influencing climate (Q), Eclipses, Aurorae and space weather (Q), Meteor Showers 
 
 
 
 
Stars 
 
 
 
 Contents 
 Topics 
 
 
 Stellar Properties 
 Methods of Distance determination, Radiation, Luminosity and magnitude, Color indices and temperature, Determination of
radii and masses, Stellar motion, Irregular and regular stellar variabilities – broad classification & properties, Cepheids and
period-luminosity relation, Physics of pulsation (Q) 
 
 
 Stellar Interior and Atmospheres 
 Stellar equilibrium, Stellar nucleosynthesis, Energy transportation (Q), Boundary conditions, Stellar atmospheres and atmospheric spectra 
 
 
 Stellar Evolution 
 Stellar formation, Hertzsprung-Russell diagram, Pre-Main Sequence, Main Sequence, Post-Main Sequence stars, supernovae, planetary nebulae, End states of stars 
 
 
 
 
Stellar Systems 
 
 
 
 Contents 
 Topics 
 
 
 Binary Star Systems 
 Different types of binary stars, Mass determination in binary star systems, Light and radial velocity curves of eclipsing binary systems, Doppler shifts in binary systems, interacting binaries, peculiar binary systems 
 
 
 Exoplanets 
 Techniques used to detect exoplanets, Habitable zone, Classes of exoplanets (Q), Spectral signatures of possible life (Q) 
 
 
 Star Clusters 
 Classification and Structure, Mass, age, luminosity and distance determination 
 
 
 Milky Way Galaxy 
 Structure and composition, Rotation, Satellites of Milky Way (Q) 
 
 
 Interstellar Medium 
 Gas (Q), dust (Q), HII regions, 21cm radiation, nebulae (Q), interstellar absorption, dispersion measure, Faraday rotation 
 
 
 Galaxies 
 Classifications based on structure, composition and activity, Mass, luminosity and distance determination, Rotation curves 
 
 
 Accretion Processes 
 Basic concepts (spherical and disc accretion) (Q), Eddington luminosity 
 
 
 
 
Cosmology 
 
 
 
 Contents 
 Topics 
 
 
 Elementary Cosmology 
 Expanding Universe and Hubble’s Law, Cluster of galaxies, Dark matter, Dark energy (Q), Gravitational lensing, Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation, Big Bang (Q), Alternative models of the Universe (Q), Large scale structure (Q), Distance measurement at cosmological scale, cosmological redshift 
 
 
 
 
Instrumentation and Space Technologies 
 
 
 
 Contents 
 Topics 
 
 
 Multi-wavelength Astronomy 
 Observations in radio, microwave, infrared, visible, ultraviolet, X-ray, and gamma-ray wavelength bands, Earth’s atmospheric effects, Artificial light and EM pollution 
 
 
 Instrumentation 
 Telescopes and detectors (e.g. charge-coupled devices, photometers, spectrographs), Magnification, Focal length, Focal ratio, resolving and light-gathering powers of telescopes, Geometric model of two element interferometer, Aperture synthesis, Adaptive optics, photometry, astrometry 
 
 
 
 
Practical Part 
 This part consists of 2 sections: observations and data analysis sections. The theoretical part of the Syllabus provides the basis for all problems in the practical part.

 The observations section focuses on contestant’s experience in

 
 Naked-eye observations. 
 Usage of sky maps and catalogues (note: any stars referred to by name rather than Bayer designation or catalogue number must be on the list of IAU-approved star names; knowledge of the whole list should not be required). 
 Application of coordinate systems in the sky, magnitude estimation, estimation of angular separation. 
 Usage of basic astronomical instruments-telescopes and various detectors for observations but enough instructions must be provided to the contestants. Observational objects may be from real sources in the sky or imitated sources in the laboratory. Computer simulations may be used in the problems but sufficient instructions must be provided to the contestants. 
 
 Observational objects may be from real sources in the sky or imitated sources in the laboratory. Computer simulations may be used in the problems but sufficient instructions must be provided to the contestants.

 The data analysis section focuses on the calculation and analysis of the astronomical data provided in the problems. Additional requirements are as follows:

 
 Proper identification of error sources. 
 Proper use of graph papers with different scales, e.g., polar and logarithmic papers. Finding “Best Fit” line approximately. 
 Familiarity with the use of basic geometrical instruments (ruler, compass, protractor, set-square). 
 Knowledge of the most common experimental techniques for measuring physical quantities mentioned in Part A. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current and past Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 2023-2027 
 President : Prof. Aniket Sule, Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Mumbai, India 

 General Secretary : Prof. Natasa Dragovic, University of Saint Thomas, St. Paul, USA 

 Councillor : Dr. Gustavo Rojas, NUCLIO Núcleo Interativo de Astronomia e Inovação em Educação, São Domingos de Rana, Portugal 

 Councillor : Prof. Siramas Komonjinda, Chiang Mai University, Thailand 

 Councillor : Prof. Greg Stachowski, Jagiellonian University Astronomical Observatory, Krakow, Poland 

  

 2017-2022 
 President : Prof. Greg Stachowski, Krakow Pedagogical University, Krakow, Poland 

 General Secretary : Prof. Aniket Sule, Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Mumbai, India 

  

 2012-2016 
 President : Prof. Chatief Kunjaya, Institute of Technology Bandung, Bandung, Indonesia 

 General Secretary : Prof. Greg Stachowski, Krakow Pedagogical University, Krakow, Poland 

  

 2007-2011 
 President : Prof. Boonrucksar Soonthornthum, National Astronomical Research Institute of Thailand, Chiang Mai, Thailand 

 General Secretary : Prof. Chatief Kunjaya, Institute of Technology Bandung, Bandung, Indonesia   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International board (2024)
 
 
 
 
 
 Executive Council 
 President:  Aniket Sule (India)

 General Secretary:  Natasa Dragovic (USA)

 Councillor:  Siramas Komonjinda (Thailand)

 Councillor:  Gustavo Rojas (Portugal)

 Councillor:  Greg Stachowski (Poland)

 Country Representatives: 
 1. Vardges Mambreyan (Armenia)

 2. Miro Joensuu (Austria)

 3. Abdullah Bazarov (Azerbaijan)

 4. Famil Mustafa (Azerbaijan)

 5. Fahim Rajit Hossain Shwadhin (Bangladesh)

 6. Ahmad Abdullah Rifat (Bangladesh)

 7. Eugenio Reis Neto (Brazil)

 8. Ualype Uchôa (Brazil)

 9. Nikola Ognyanov Karavasilev (Bulgaria)

 10. Zahari Donchev (Bulgaria)

 11. Vera Zagainova (Canada)

 12. Armin Hodaei (Canada)

 13. Zhishuai Ge (China)

 14. Yilin Guo (China)

 15. Cristian Goez Theran (Colombia)

 16. Damir Hržina (Croatia)

 17. Ivan Romštajn (Croatia)

 18. George Keliris (Cyprus)

 19. Ioannis Panagiotou (Cyprus)

 20. Tomáš Gráf (Czech Republic)

 21. Marco Souza de Joode (Czech Republic)

 22. Marcela Janine Morillo Acosta (Ecuador)

 23. Daniel Alexander Villarruel Yánez (Ecuador)

 24. Kevin Menjívar Ascencio (El Salvador)

 25. Brisa Terezón (El Salvador)

 26. Richard Luhtaru (Estonia)

 27. Leonid Zinatullin (Estonia)

 28. Giorgi Bakhtadze (Georgia)

 29. Nikoloz Tskitishvili (Georgia)

 30. Ivan Kokhanovskyi (Germany)

 31. Jonathan Gräfe (Germany)

 32. Loukas Zacheilas (Greece)

 33. Georgios Lioutas (Greece)

 34. József Kovács (Hungary)

 35. Gergely Dálya (Hungary)

 36. Surhud More (India)

 37. Pritesh Ranadive (India)

 38. Mochamad Ikbal Arifyanto (Indonesia)

 39. Hakim Luthfi Malasan (Indonesia)

 40. Hossein Haghi (Iran)

 41. Seyed Mohammad Taghi Mirtorabi (Iran)

 42. Osamu Hashimoto (Japan)

 43. Akika Nakamichi (Japan)

 44. Nurzada Beissen (Kazakhstan)

 45. Kenzhetay Assel (Kazakhstan)

 46. Dzharkyn Bapanova (Kyrgyzstan)

 47. Aleksandra Shumeiko (Kyrgyzstan)

 48. Kyoung Hee Kim (Korea)

 49. Seonjae Lee (Korea)

 50. Dmitrijs Docenko (Latvia)

 51. Inese Dudareva (Latvia)

 52. Audrius Bridžius (Lithuania)

 53. Vidas Dobrovolskas (Lithuania)

 54. Yong Sheng Yap (Malaysia)

 55. Tian Xiong Chong (Malaysia)

 56. Suresh Bhattarai (Nepal)

 57. Manisha Dwa (Nepal)

 58. Håkon Dahle (Norway)

 59. Thais Mothe-Diniz (Norway)

 60. Abubakar Sial (Pakistan)

 61. Iván Flores Ramos (Peru)

 62. Victor Vera Cervantes (Peru)

 63. Bernard Llaguno (Philippines)

 64. Ronn Marr Perez (Philippines)

 65. Karolina Bąkowska (Poland)

 66. Tomasz Kisiel (Poland)

 67. Gustavo Rojas (Portugal)

 68. Elisabeta Ana Naghi (Romania)

 69. Petru Craciun (Romania)

 70. Talal Al-Rashidi (Saudi Arabia)

 71. Milan Stojanović (Serbia)

 72. Damnjan Milić (Serbia)

 73. Yuen Xiang Hao (Singapore)

 74. Yi-Lin Leong (Singapore)

 75. Ladislav Hric (Slovakia)

 76. Mária Hricová Bartolomejová (Slovakia)

 77. Dunja Fabjan (Slovenia)

 78. Andrej Guštin (Slovenia)

 79. Hugo Berg (Sweden)

 80. Benjamin Verbeek (Sweden)

 81. Kulapant Pimsamarn (Thailand)

 82. Apimook Watcharangkool (Thailand)

 83. Sinan Aliş (Türkiye)

 84. Sinan Kaan Yerli (Türkiye)

 85. Subramanian Krishnamoorthy (United Arab Emirates)

 86. Volodymyr Reshetnyk (Ukraine)

 87. Oksana Vernydub (Ukraine)

 88. Joshua Brown (United Kingdom)

 89. Thomas Hillman (United Kingdom)

 90. Abhay Bestrapalli (United States of America)

 91. Lucas Carrit Delgado Pinheiro (United States of America)

 92. Luu Hoa Tran (Vietnam)

 93. Le Manh Cuong (Vietnam)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International Board activities
 
 
 
 
 
 IOAA 2025: 

 18th IOAA - Mumbai - August 2025 
 Minutes for Organisational IBM - 18th August 2025 
 
The Organisational meeting of the International Board was called at 9.30 a.m. on August 18, 2025 by President IOAA.
Leaders and Observers from approximately 64 Countries were present. 
Aniket Sule, President IOAA and Natasa Dragovic, General Secretary, IOAA welcomed all the participants. 
Gen. Sec. introduced online participants, which included IOAA executive committee member Greg Stachowski, Gustavo Rojas, and Siramas Komojinda. She also welcomed Andrej Gustin, former team leader from Slovenia. 

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IOAA Anthem
 
 
 
 
 
 IOAA Anthem 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IOAA logo
 
 
 
 
 
 Coming soon!

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For Media 
 IOAA Sponsors 
 Links 
 
 
 &copy; 2026 IOAA. Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 &times; 
 
 
 
 
 IOAA Procedural Code 
 
 20.07.2026
 
 
 The International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics (IOAA) strives to provide an inclusive atmosphere that encourages the free expression and exchange of scientific ideas. The IOAA is committed to prevent any unpleasant incidents that may occur during the events of the Olympiad itself, at International Board Meetings (IBM), during IOAA related discussions, and in general in any activity of its scientific bodies in which the IOAA has or shares responsibility. This includes any social activities and informal gatherings attached to the above mentioned events. 

 IOAA opposes any discrimination or harassment based on such factors as ethnic origin, religion, citizenship, language, political or other opinion, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability, or age. 

 
 
 
 Read more 
 Close